{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f35\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020404030301010803}Garamond;}{\f38\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f39\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f41\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f42\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f43\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f44\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f45\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f46\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f48\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f49\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}{\f51\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f52\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}
{\f53\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial (Hebrew);}{\f54\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial (Arabic);}{\f55\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}{\f56\fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Arial (Vietnamese);}{\f388\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Garamond CE;}
{\f389\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Garamond Cyr;}{\f391\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Garamond Greek;}{\f392\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Garamond Tur;}{\f395\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Garamond Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs48\lang1033\langfe1033\kerning36\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext1 \styrsid6184584 heading 1;}{
\s2\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs36\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext2 \styrsid6184584 heading 2;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden 
Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\*\cs15 \additive \f35\fs36\cf1 \sbasedon10 \styrsid13647225 sc;}{\*\cs16 \additive 
\i\f35\fs36\cf1 \sbasedon15 \styrsid13647225 sci;}{\*\cs17 \additive \b\i\scaps\f35\fs36\cf1 \sbasedon15 \styrsid13647225 scl;}{\s18\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f35\fs36\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext18 \styrsid13647225 scp;}{\*\cs19 \additive \b\i\f35\fs24\cf6 \sbasedon15 \styrsid13647225 scru;}{\*\cs20 \additive \b\f1\fs36 \sbasedon10 \styrsid13647225 spa;}{\*\cs21 
\additive \b\f1\fs32 \sbasedon20 \styrsid13647225 sdoa;}{\*\cs22 \additive \b\i\scaps\f1\fs32 \sbasedon21 \styrsid13647225 sdoal;}{\s23\qj \li576\ri576\sb100\sa100\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin576\lin576\itap0 
\f1\fs36\cf15\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext23 \slink25 \styrsid13647225 sps;}{\s24\qj \li576\ri576\sb100\sa100\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin576\lin576\itap0 
\i\f1\fs32\cf16\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon23 \snext23 \slink26 \styrsid13647225 sdos;}{\*\cs25 \additive \f1\fs36\cf15\lang1033\langfe1033\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon10 \slink23 \styrsid13647225 sps Char;}{\*\cs26 
\additive \i\f1\fs32\cf16\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid0\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon25 \slink24 \styrsid13647225 sdos Char;}{\s27\qj \li576\ri576\sb100\sa100\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin576\lin576\itap0 
\i\scaps\f1\fs32\cf16\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon24 \snext24 \slink28 \styrsid13647225 sdosl;}{\*\cs28 \additive \i\scaps\f1\fs32\cf16\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid0\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon26 \slink27 \styrsid13647225 sdosl Char;}{\*\cs29 \additive \b\i\f1\fs36 \sbasedon20 \styrsid13647225 spai;}{\*\cs30 \additive \b\i\scaps\f0\fs28 \sbasedon10 \styrsid13647225 spal;}{\*\cs31 \additive \b\i\f1\fs24\cf6 \sbasedon20 \styrsid13647225 
sparu;}{\s32\qj \li576\ri576\sb100\sa100\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin576\lin576\itap0 \i\f1\fs36\cf15\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon23 \snext23 \styrsid13647225 spsi;}{
\s33\qj \li576\ri576\sb100\sa100\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin576\lin576\itap0 \i\scaps\f1\fs28\cf15\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon23 \snext23 \slink34 \styrsid13647225 spsl;}{\*\cs34 \additive 
\i\scaps\f1\fs28\cf15\lang1033\langfe1033\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon25 \slink33 \styrsid13647225 spsl Char;}{\s35\qj \li576\ri576\sb100\sa100\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin576\lin576\itap0 
\i\f1\fs28\cf6\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon23 \snext23 \styrsid13647225 spsru;}{\*\cs36 \additive \f1\fs32 \sbasedon10 \styrsid13647225 sr;}{\*\cs37 \additive \f1\fs16 \sbasedon36 \styrsid13647225 sre;}{\*\cs38 \additive 
\i\f1\fs32 \sbasedon10 \styrsid13647225 sri;}{\*\cs39 \additive \i\scaps\f1\fs24 \sbasedon36 \styrsid13647225 srl;}{\s40\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f1\fs32\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext40 \sautoupd \styrsid13647225 srp;}{\*\cs41 \additive \i\f1\fs24\cf6 \sbasedon36 \styrsid13647225 srru;}{\*\cs42 \additive \i\f1\cf6 \sbasedon10 \styrsid13647225 sru;}{\*
\cs43 \additive \i\f1\fs28\cf6 \sbasedon42 \styrsid13647225 sru14;}{\*\cs44 \additive \i\f1\fs24\cf8\chshdng0\chcfpat0\chcbpat6 \sbasedon41 \styrsid13647225 srun;}{\*\cs45 \additive \i\f1\fs28\cf8\chshdng0\chcfpat0\chcbpat6 \sbasedon44 \styrsid13647225 
sru14n;}{\*\cs46 \additive \i\f1\fs32\cf6 \sbasedon42 \styrsid13647225 sru16;}{\*\cs47 \additive \i\f1\fs24\cf8\chshdng0\chcfpat0\chcbpat6 \sbasedon44 \styrsid13647225 sru16n;}{\s48\qj \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0
\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\noproof\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext40 \styrsid13647225 srub;}{\s49\qj \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0
\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \cbpat6 \b\i\f1\fs32\cf8\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\noproof\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon48 \snext40 \styrsid13647225 srubn;}{
\s50\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext40 \styrsid13647225 srul;}{
\s51\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \cbpat6 \b\i\f1\fs32\cf8\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon50 \snext40 \styrsid13647225 sruln;}{
\s52\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext52 \styrsid6184584 Normal (Web);}{\*\cs53 \additive 
\sbasedon10 \styrsid6184584 n;}{\s54\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext54 \styrsid6184584 header;}{
\s55\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext55 \styrsid6184584 footer;}}{\*\pgptbl {\pgp\ipgp0\itap0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0}}
{\*\rsidtbl \rsid21972\rsid161897\rsid218423\rsid546481\rsid810486\rsid922594\rsid937046\rsid1058575\rsid1273641\rsid1317363\rsid1318555\rsid1397815\rsid1582754\rsid1642578\rsid1722901\rsid1865760\rsid1923413\rsid1988347\rsid2063439\rsid2174879
\rsid2230697\rsid2237196\rsid2362264\rsid2497027\rsid2703733\rsid2844930\rsid2884129\rsid2908027\rsid3083077\rsid3104755\rsid3108045\rsid3211628\rsid3301334\rsid3308583\rsid3408490\rsid3425624\rsid3670973\rsid4129769\rsid4135284\rsid4332843\rsid4402345
\rsid4422011\rsid4590535\rsid4663725\rsid4787383\rsid4800872\rsid4803608\rsid4942321\rsid4989187\rsid4996522\rsid5078565\rsid5248014\rsid5596295\rsid5657712\rsid5988184\rsid6107109\rsid6181578\rsid6184584\rsid6245474\rsid6770987\rsid6819527\rsid6822389
\rsid7078377\rsid7161327\rsid7216887\rsid7219507\rsid7222671\rsid7410917\rsid7426496\rsid7434071\rsid7555978\rsid7632881\rsid8019119\rsid8076256\rsid8202599\rsid8353050\rsid8419580\rsid8527219\rsid8665859\rsid8785413\rsid9263722\rsid9324022\rsid9371717
\rsid9589519\rsid9843959\rsid9963201\rsid9984706\rsid10035114\rsid10094848\rsid10380926\rsid10496314\rsid10509988\rsid10512664\rsid10691502\rsid10712425\rsid10823417\rsid10879496\rsid10880961\rsid11293853\rsid11304306\rsid11340877\rsid11403649
\rsid11408226\rsid11470024\rsid11541525\rsid11610005\rsid11816876\rsid12004451\rsid12021721\rsid12202200\rsid12207144\rsid12528376\rsid12726564\rsid13063652\rsid13138093\rsid13238608\rsid13303831\rsid13444183\rsid13464027\rsid13503701\rsid13568893
\rsid13643585\rsid13644314\rsid13647225\rsid13659437\rsid13700349\rsid13846769\rsid13898182\rsid14163352\rsid14248694\rsid14369411\rsid14446277\rsid14492240\rsid14511001\rsid14559748\rsid14638519\rsid14640583\rsid14706406\rsid14768180\rsid14775789
\rsid14954401\rsid15079453\rsid15094729\rsid15162940\rsid15274499\rsid15355622\rsid15357649\rsid15362929\rsid15486309\rsid15535250\rsid15549650\rsid15560504\rsid15563335\rsid15803031\rsid15877200\rsid15935013\rsid16085408\rsid16139145\rsid16546460
\rsid16652694}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.2627;}{\info{\title What is Confession}{\author Priest Seraphim Holland}{\operator Priest Seraphim Holland}{\creatim\yr2002\mo10\dy29\hr19\min51}{\revtim\yr2003\mo2\dy2\hr7\min40}
{\printim\yr2003\mo2\dy2\hr7\min36}{\version2}{\edmins2}{\nofpages3}{\nofwords1130}{\nofchars6445}{\*\company  }{\nofcharsws7560}{\vern16437}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1800\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel\wrppunct\asianbrkrule\rsidroot10823417 \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\header \pard\plain \s1\qc \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid6184584 
\b\fs48\lang1033\langfe1033\kerning36\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs42\insrsid6184584\charrsid6184584 What Is Necessary for a Saving Confession?
\par }\pard\plain \s2\qc \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid6184584 \b\fs36\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid6184584 
by Metropolitan Innocent of Moscow
\par }\pard\plain \s54\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid6184584 
\par }}{\footer \pard\plain \s55\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid6184584 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid6184584 Page }{\field{\*\fldinst {\insrsid6184584 
 PAGE }}{\fldrslt {\lang1024\langfe1024\noproof\insrsid11610005 1}}}{\insrsid6184584  of }{\field{\*\fldinst {\insrsid6184584  NUMPAGES }}{\fldrslt {\lang1024\langfe1024\noproof\insrsid11610005 3}}}{\insrsid6184584 
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s52\qj \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid6184584 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid6184584 What is Confession? Confession is the oral avowal of one's
 sins which lie heavy upon the conscience. Repentance cleanses the soul and makes it ready to receive the Holy Spirit, but confession, so to speak, only empties the soul of sins. 
\par Let us present a simple analogy and comparison to confession. For example, s
uppose you had only one vessel of some kind, which you through negligence or laziness let reach a stage where little by little it accumulated all sorts of dirt so that your vessel became not only unusable but even unbearable to look at without repugnance.
 
\par But what if a king wanted to give you as a gift some sort of fragrant and precious balm, one drop of which could heal all infirmities and protect - what then? Would you refuse such a valuable gift only because you had no other clean vessel in which to put
 it? No! It would be very natural for you to accept such a gift and you would try to clean your vessel. How would you begin to clean your vessel? No doubt, before anything else, you would rid it of all uncleanness; you would begin by washing it with water
 and, perhaps would even burn it out so that it no longer retained any of its former odors. Isn't that so? 
\par Now let the vessel represent the soul given to you by God, which you have brought to such a state that it has been filled with all kinds of transgres
sion and iniquities; let the sweet-smelling balm, given by the king, signify the Holy Spirit, Who heals all infirmities and afflictions, Whom the King of heaven and earth, Jesus Christ, freely bestows upon us. 
\par To examine your vessel signifies feeling your guilt before God and recalling all sins, which have stolen into your heart. 
\par To clean out the vessel typifies the confession of your sins before your spiritual father, and washing with water and burning with fire signifies a sincere and even tearful repen
tance and a voluntary resolve to endure all unpleasantness, needs, afflictions, misfortunes, and even calamities that befall us. 
\par Now tell me: Is Confession profitable or needful? Certainly it is profitable and even essential; because, just as it is imposs
ible to cleanse a vessel without ridding it of all uncleanness, so it is impossible to purge your soul of sins without confession. 
\par But tell me, is confession alone enough for the reception of the Holy Spirit? Certainly not, because in order to receive the
 sweet-smelling and precious balm into a defiled vessel it is not enough to just empty it, but it is necessary to wash it with water and refine it with fire. Just so, in order to receive the Holy Spirit, it is not enough just to confess or recite your sin
s before a spiritual father, but it is necessary together with this to purge your soul with repentance or contrition and grief of soul, and burn it out with voluntary endurance of afflictions. So then, this is what confession and repentance mean! 
\par What does a true and correct confession consist of? 
\par When we wish to cleanse our conscience of sins in the Mystery of Repentance: Before everything else it is necessary to believe in the Lord Jesus Christ and firmly hope that He is ready to forgive all sins, no mat
ter of what magnitude, if only the sinner repents open-heartedly; it is necessary to believe and hope that the God of all wants and seeks our return. 
\par Of this He assures us through the prophet thus: "As I live, saith the Lord," i. e., I assure and swear by My life, "In desiring I do not desire", i.e., I do not at all desire, "the death of a sinner, but entirely desire his conversion." 
\par It is necessary to have a broken heart. Who is God? And who are we? God is the Almighty Creator of heaven and earth; He is 
the awful and righteous Judge. And we? We are weak and insignificant mortals. All people, even the greatest people, are less than dust before God, and we can never imagine how disgusting to God is any sin and how any transgression offends Him. 
\par And we, ins
ignificant and weak, we mortals endlessly benefited by our God, dare to offend Him - the All-Good One? Oh! This is so horrible! We are such debtors before God, such transgressors, that not only should we not dare to call ourselves His children, but are no
t even worthy of being His lowliest servants. 
\par Therefore, picturing all this, you see what contriteness, what lamentation it is necessary to have then, when we want to purge ourselves of sins. And such a feeling must be had not only before confession and du
ring confession, but also after confession. And even more important, do you want to offer a sacrifice to God such as will be acceptable to Him? Naturally we all gladly want this and as far as possible we offer it. But what can we offer Him really acceptab
le? A broken heart. A sacrifice unto God is a broken spirit; a heart that is broken and humbled, here is an offering to God more priceless than all offerings and oblations! 
\par It is necessary to forgive all our enemies and offenders all the harmful and offensive things they have done to us. Forgiveness\emdash 
what does it mean to forgive? To forgive means never to avenge, neither secretly nor openly; never to recall wrongs but rather t
o forget them and, above all, to love your enemy as a friend, a brother, as a comrade; to protect his honor and to treat him right-mindedly in all things. This is what it means to forgive. 
\par And who agrees that this is difficult? So, it is a hard matter to 
forgive wrongs, but he who can forgive wrongs is for this reason great - truly great, both before God and before man. Yes, it is a hard matter to forgive your enemies; but it is necessary to forgive, otherwise God Himself will not forgive. Jesus Christ sa
id: If ye forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly Father will forgive you also your trespasses. But if ye forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your heavenly Father forgive you yours. 
\par On the contrary to this, though you pray to God every hour,
 though you have such faith that you can move mountains, even though you give away all of your belongings to the needy, and give your body to be burned, if you do not practice forgiveness and do not wish to forgive your enemy, then all is in vain, for in 
such circumstances neither prayer, nor faith, nor charity, will save you, in short, nothing will save you. 
\par But if it is needful to forgive our enemies, so likewise it is indispensable to ask also forgiveness of those people whom we have offended. Thus, if 
you have offended anyone by word, ask forgiveness of him, come and bow down at his feet and say, "Forgive me." Have you offended by deed? Endeavor to expiate your guilt and offenses and recompense his damage, then be certain that all of your sins, no matt
er how heavy they be, will be forgiven you. 
\par It is necessary to reveal your sins properly and without any concealment. Some say, "For what reason should I reveal my sins to Him Who knows all of our secrets?" Certainly God knows all of our sins, but the Chur
ch, which has the power from God to forgive and absolve sins, cannot know them, and for this reason She cannot, without confession, pronounce Her absolution. 
\par Finally, it is necessary to set forth a firm intention to live prudently in the future. If you wa
nt to be in the kingdom of heaven, if you want God to forgive your sins - then stop sinning! Only on this condition does the Church absolve the penitent of his sins. And he who does not think at all about correcting himself confesses in vain, labors in va
in, for even if the priest says, "I forgive and absolve," the Holy Spirit does not forgive and absolve him! 
\par }\pard \s52\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid6184584 {\cs53\insrsid6184584 From Orthodox Life, vol. 38, no. 4 (July-August, 1988), pp. 20-22.}{\insrsid6184584 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\insrsid3211628\charrsid6184584 
\par }}