{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f15\fdecor\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 04040505050a02020702}Harrington;}{\f16\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0506020202030204}Arial Narrow;}{\f17\fscript\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 03020802060602070202}Matura MT Script Capitals;}
{\f20\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f21\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f23\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f24\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f25\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f26\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f27\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}{\f29\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f30\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}
{\f31\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}{\f116\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial Narrow CE;}{\f117\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Narrow Cyr;}{\f119\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Narrow Greek;}{\f120\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Narrow Tur;}
{\f121\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Narrow Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \snext0 
Normal;}{\s1\sb240\sa60\keepn\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \b\f1\fs28\kerning28\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\sb240\sa60\keepn\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f1\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{
\s3\sb240\sa60\keepn\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f1\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 3;}{\s4\sb240\sa60\keepn\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \b\f1\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 4;}{\s5\sb240\sa60\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright 
\f1\fs22\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 5;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\qc\li-720\ri-446\keepn\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \b\i\f15\fs48\cgrid \sbasedon1 \snext15 \sautoupd COTC Heading 1;}{
\s16\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs32 \sbasedon0 \snext16 BigNormal;}{\s17\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \b\fs32 \sbasedon0 \snext17 BigQuote1;}{\s18\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \i\fs32 \sbasedon0 \snext18 BigQuote2;}{
\s19\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f1 \sbasedon17 \snext19 BigReference;}{\s20\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \i\fs32 \sbasedon16 \snext16 BiqQuotation;}{\s21\qc\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \b\scaps\f16\fs14\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext21 
calannouncment;}{\s22\qc\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f1\fs14\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext22 calassignments;}{\s23\qc\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\box\brdrs\brdrw15 \pvpara\posxc\posy0\dxfrtext187\dfrmtxtx187\dfrmtxty0\adjustright \b\fs14\cgrid 
\sbasedon0 \snext0 caldate;}{\s24\qc\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\box\brdrs\brdrw15 \pvpara\posxc\posy0\dxfrtext187\dfrmtxtx187\dfrmtxty0\adjustright \shading1250 \b\fs14\cgrid \sbasedon23 \snext0 calfastdate;}{
\s25\qc\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\pvpara\posxc\posy0\dxfrtext187\dfrmtxtx187\dfrmtxty0\nowrap\adjustright \b\f17\fs14\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext25 calfeast;}{\s26\qc\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \scaps\f16\fs14\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext0 calreading;}{
\s27\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\pvpara\posy0\dxfrtext187\dfrmtxtx187\dfrmtxty0\adjustright \b\i\f16\fs14\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext27 calservice;}{\s28\qc\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \b\f16\fs14\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext26 caltypicon;}}{\info
{\title Prayer to Our Lord}{\author Fr Seraphim Holland}{\operator Fr Seraphim Holland}{\creatim\yr2000\mo6\dy6\hr18\min15}{\revtim\yr2000\mo6\dy6\hr18\min16}{\version1}{\edmins1}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords487}{\nofchars2778}
{\*\company St Nicholas Russian Orthodox Church}{\nofcharsws3411}{\vern71}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\formshade\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9
\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qc\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\b\fs28 Prayer to Our Lord
\par JESUS CHRIST
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\fs28 
\par O Lord and Master, Jesus Christ, my God, through thine ineffable love for mankind Thou wast wrapped in flesh, at the end of the ages, from the Ever\_
Virgin Mary. I glorify Thy saving providence and care for me, Thy servant, O Master. I praise Thee, for through Thee, I have learned to know the Father. I bless 
Thee through Whom the Holy Spirit came into the world. I bow to Thy most pure Mother who served for the dread mystery of Thine Incarnation. I praise the angelic choir as the servants and singers of Thy majesty. I bless Saint John the Forerunner who baptiz
e
d Thee, O Lord. I honour also the prophets who announced Thee. I glorify Thy holy apostles. I celebrate the martyrs. I glorify Thy priests. I venerate Thy saints and praise all Thy righteous ones. This such countless and unutterable divine choir, I thy se
rvant, in prayer offer to Thee, O all\_compassionate God. Wherefore, I ask the forgiveness of my sins, which do Thou grant me for the sake of all Thy saints, but especially for the sake of Thy holy compassion, for blessed art Thou unto the ages. Amen.

\par 
\par }\pard \qc\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\b\fs28 Prayer to the 
\par Most Holy Theotokos
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\fs28 
\par Accept from us thine unworthy servants, O all\_powerful\_for\_good, immaculate.  Sovereign Lady, Mother of God, these honourable gifts, which can be offered only to thee, who art the one chosen out of all generations, and who h
ast become higher than all creation, heavenly and earthly. For through thee the Lord of hosts was with us, and through thee we came to know the Son of God, and were granted His holy Body and most pure Blood. Wherefore thou art blessed by all generations, 
the Favourite of God, more radiant than the Cherubim, and more honourable than the Seraphim. And now, O all\_
hymned, most holy Theotokos, cease not to pray for us thine unworthy servants, to be delivered from every snare of the subtle one, and from all beset
ting sins, and preserve us unharmed from every poisonous temptation of the devil. But by thy prayers preserve us unto the end uncondemned; for saved by thy help and protection, we send up glory, praise, thanksgiving and worship for all, to the One God in 
Trinity and Creator of all, now and ever, and unto the ages of ages. Amen.
\par 
\par }\pard \qc\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\b\fs28 Prayer to the 
\par Holy Guardian Angel}{\fs28 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\fs28 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\fs28 Holy Angel of Christ, I fall down and pray to thee, my holy Guardian, given me from holy Baptism for the protection of my sinful body and soul. B
y my laziness and bad habits, I have angered thy most pure light, and have driven thee away from me by all my shameful deeds, lies, slander, envy, condemnation, scorn, disobedience, hatred of brother, grudges, avarice, adultery, anger, meanness, greed, gl
uttony, drunkenness, loquacity, negative and evil thoughts, proud ways, having self\_
will in all the desires of the flesh. O my evil will, which even the dumb animals do not follow! How canst thou look at me or approach me! With what eyes, O Angel of Christ,
 wilt thou look at me so badly snared in vile deeds? How can I ask forgiveness for my bitter, evil and wicked deeds, into which I fall every day and night, and every hour? But falling down, I pray to thee, O my holy Guardian: pity me, thy sinful and unwor
thy servant }{\i\fs28 (Name)}{\fs28 . Be my helper and protector against my wicked enemy, by thy holy prayers, and make me a partaker of the Kingdom of God with all the Saints, always, now and ever, and unto the ages of ages. Amen.}{
\par }}