{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f3\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05050102010706020507}Symbol;}{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times;}
{\f5\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Helvetica;}{\f6\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Courier;}{\f7\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Geneva;}
{\f8\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Tms Rmn;}{\f9\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Helv;}{\f10\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}MS Serif;}
{\f11\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}MS Sans Serif;}{\f12\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}New York;}{\f13\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}System;}
{\f14\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05000000000000000000}Wingdings;}{\f15\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq3{\*\panose 020b0604030504040204}Tahoma;}{\f16\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f17\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}
{\f19\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f20\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f21\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f22\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f23\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}
{\f25\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f26\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}{\f27\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}{\f28\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f29\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}
{\f31\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f32\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f33\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;
\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext15 Plain Text;}}{\info
{\title THE GREAT CANON OF ST ANDREW OF CRETE}{\author tholland}{\operator tholland}{\creatim\yr2001\mo3\dy6\hr8\min39}{\revtim\yr2001\mo3\dy6\hr8\min39}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages31}{\nofwords10222}{\nofchars58268}{\*\company Alcatel USA, Inc}
{\nofcharsws71557}{\vern113}}\margl1319\margr1319 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\formshade\viewkind4\viewscale125\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2
\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {THE GREAT CANON OF ST ANDREW OF CRETE
\par Full Canon for Fifth Week of Great Lent.
\par 
\par Click here to return to
\par the Great Canon of St
\par Andrew of Crete Index
\par and Background Area.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par T R I O D I O N
\par 
\par Thursday of the Fifth Week of Lent
\par 
\par THE ORDER OF THE GREAT CANON OF SAINT ANDREW OF CRETE.
\par 
\par This service is on Wednesday evening. Matins begins as usual in Lent, till the 8th Kathisma (55-63) and the Sedalion
\par with its Theotokion. The first half of the Life of Saint Mary of Egypt is now read. Then, after Psalm 50 we at once
\par begin to sing the Canon anon, leisurely and with compunction. Before each Troparion, we make the sign of the
\par cross and bow three times, saying: Have mercy on me, O God, have mercy on me.
\par 
\par 
\par Song 1.
\par 
\par Eirmos: He is my Helper and Protector, and has become my salvation.
\par This is my God and I will glorify Him. My father's God and I will
\par exalt Him. For gloriously has He been glorified. (Exodus 15:2, 1;
\par Psalm 117:14)
\par 
\par Refrain: Have mercy on me, O God, have mercy on me.
\par 
\par Troparia:
\par 
\par 1. Where shall I begin to lament the deeds of my wretched life? What
\par first-fruit shall I offer, O Christ, for my present lamentation? But
\par in Thy compassion grant me release from my falls.
\par 
\par 2. Come, wretched soul, with your flesh, confess to the Creator of
\par all. In future refrain from your former brutishness, and offer to God
\par tears in repentance.
\par 
\par 3. Having rivalled the first-created Adam by my transgression, I
\par realize that I am stripped naked of God and of the everlasting kingdom
\par and bliss through my sins. (Genesis 3)
\par 
\par 4. Alas, wretched soul! Why are you like the first Eve? For you have
\par wickedly looked and been bitterly wounded, and you have touched the
\par tree and rashly tasted the forbidden food.
\par 
\par 5. The place of bodily Eve has been taken for me by the Eve of my mind
\par in the shape of a passionate thought in the flesh, showing me sweet
\par things, yet ever making me taste and swallow bitter things.
\par 
\par 6. Adam was rightly exiled from Eden for not keeping Thy one
\par commandment, O Saviour. But what shall I suffer who am always
\par rejecting Thy living words? (Hebrews 12:25; Genesis 3:23)
\par 
\par 7. I have willfully incurred the guilt of Cain's murder, since by
\par invigorating my flesh I am the murderer of my soul's awareness, and
\par have warred against it by my evil deeds. (Genesis 4:8)
\par 
\par 8. I have not resembled Abel's righteousness, O Jesus. I have never
\par offered Thee acceptable gifts, nor divine actions, nor a pure
\par sacrifice, nor an unblemished life. (Genesis 4:4)
\par 
\par 9. Like Cain, we too, O wretched soul, have likewise offered to the
\par Creator of all foul deeds, defective sacrifice and a useless life.
\par Therefore we too are condemned. (Genesis 4:5; Hebrews 11:4)
\par 
\par 10. In molding my clay into life, O Potter, Thou didst put in me flesh
\par and bones, breath and vitality. But, O my Creator, my Redeemer and
\par Judge, accept me who repent. (Genesis 2:7; Jeremiah 18:1-10; Romans
\par 9:21)
\par 
\par 11. I confess to Thee, O Saviour, the sins I have committed, and the
\par wounds of my body and soul which murderous thoughts like robbers within
\par have inflicted upon me. (Luke 10:30)
\par 
\par 12. I have sinned, O Saviour, yet I know that Thou art the Lover of
\par men. Thou strikest compassionately and pitiest warmly. Thou seest me
\par weeping and runnest towards me as the Father recalling the Prodigal.
\par (Luke 15:20)
\par 
\par 13. In old age even, O Saviour, do not cast me out empty to hell as I
\par lie prostrate before Thy gates. But before my end, in Thy love for
\par men, grant me release from my falls.
\par 
\par 14. I am the one by my thoughts who fell among robbers; and now I am
\par all wounded by them, full of sores. But stand by me, O Christ my
\par Saviour, and heal me. (Luke 10:30)
\par 
\par 15. The priest saw me first and passed by on the other side. Then the
\par Levite took a look at my sufferings and disdained my nakedness. But
\par stand by me, O Jesus Who didst dawn out of Mary, and have compassion on
\par me. (Luke 10:31-33)
\par 
\par 16. O Lamb of God, Who takest away the sins of all, take from me the
\par heavy yoke of sin, and in Thy compassion grant me tears of
\par compunction[1] (John 1:29)
\par 
\par 17. It is time for repentance. I draw near to Thee, my Creator. Take
\par from me the heavy yoke of sin, and in Thy compassion grant me tears of
\par compunction.*
\par 
\par 18. Abhor me not, O Saviour, cast me not away from Thy face. Take
\par from me the heavy yoke of sin, and in Thy compassion grant me release
\par from my falls.*
\par 
\par 19. All my sins, voluntary and involuntary, obvious and secret, known
\par and unknown, forgive, O Saviour, for Thou art God; be merciful and save
\par me.
\par 
\par 20. From my youth, O Christ, I have rejected Thy commandments. I have
\par passed my whole life without caring or thinking as a slave of my
\par passions. Therefore, O Saviour, I cry to Thee: At least in the end
\par save me.
\par 
\par 21. I have squandered in profligacy my substance, O Saviour, and I am
\par barren of virtues and piety; but famished I cry: O Father of mercies,
\par forestall and have compassion on me. (Luke 15:13,17)
\par 
\par 22. I fall prostrate before Thee, O Jesus. I have sinned against
\par Thee, be merciful to me. Take from me the heavy yoke of sin, and in
\par Thy compassion grant me tears of compunction.
\par 
\par 23. Enter not into judgment with me, by recording my deeds, demanding
\par an account of my words, and examining my motives and desires. But in
\par Thy compassion disregard my terrible past and save me, O God
\par All-Powerful.
\par 
\par 
\par ANOTHER CANON, OF SAINT MARY OF EGYPT to the same Tone and Eirmos:
\par 
\par Refrain: Holy mother Mary, pray for us.
\par 
\par To St. Mary of Egypt: Grant me that illuminating grace from on high
\par given thee by Divine Providence that I may escape the darkening of the
\par passions and fervently sing of the thrilling achievements of thy life,
\par O Mary.
\par 
\par Refrain: Holy mother Mary, pray for us.
\par 
\par To St. Mary of Egypt: By submitting to Christ's divine laws Thou didst
\par draw near to Him, having left the unbridled craving for pleasure, and
\par with all discretion thou didst achieve every virtue as one.
\par 
\par Refrain: Holy father Andrew, pray for us.
\par 
\par To St. Andrew of Crete: By thy prayers, O Andrew, deliver us from
\par degrading passions, and make us who with faith and love sing of thee
\par partakers now of the Kingdom of Christ, O renowned father, we pray.
\par 
\par Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
\par 
\par To The Trinity: Superessential Trinity, adored in Unity, take from me
\par the heavy yoke of sin, and in Thy compassion grant me tears of
\par compunction.
\par 
\par Now and ever, and to the ages of ages. Amen.
\par 
\par Theotokion: Mother of God, hope and intercessor of those who sing of
\par thee, take from me the heavy yoke of sin, and as thou art our pure
\par Lady, accept me who repent.
\par 
\par 
\par Song 2.
\par 
\par Eirmos: Attend, O heaven, and I will speak, and will sing of Christ who
\par came to dwell among us in flesh which He took from the Virgin.
\par 
\par Refrain: Have mercy on me, O God, have mercy on me.
\par 
\par Troparia:
\par 
\par 1. Attend, O heaven, and I will speak; O earth, give ear to a voice
\par repenting to God and singing praises to Him.
\par 
\par 2. Attend to me, O God my Saviour, with Thy merciful eye, and accept
\par my fervent confession. (Proverbs 15:3; Psalm 33:15)
\par 
\par 3. I have sinned above all men, I alone have sinned against Thee. But
\par as God have compassion, O Saviour, on Thy creature. (I Timothy 1:15)
\par 
\par 4. A storm of passions besets me, O compassionate Lord. But stretch
\par out Thy hand to me too, as to Peter. (Matthew 14:31)
\par 
\par 5. The tears of the harlot, O merciful Lord, I too offer to Thee. Be
\par merciful to me, O Saviour, in Thy compassion. (Luke 7:38; 18:13)
\par 
\par 6. I have darkened the beauty of my soul with passionate pleasures,
\par and my whole mind I have reduced wholly to mud.
\par 
\par 7. I have torn my first garment which the Creator wove for me in the
\par beginning, and therefore I am lying naked. (Genesis 3:21)
\par 
\par 8. I have put on a torn coat, which the serpent wove for me by
\par argument, and I am ashamed. (Genesis 3:4-5)
\par 
\par 9. I looked at the beauty of the tree, and my mind was seduced; and
\par now I lie naked, and I am ashamed. (Genesis 3:7)
\par 
\par 10. All the demon-chiefs of the passions have plowed on my back, and
\par long has their tyranny over me lasted. (Psalm 128:3)
\par 
\par 11. I have lost my first-created beauty and comeliness; and now I lie
\par naked, and I am ashamed.
\par 
\par 12. Sin which stripped me of my former God-woven clothing has also
\par sewn on me coats of skin. (Genesis 3:21)
\par 
\par 13. I am wrapped in a garment of shame as with fig leaves, in reproof
\par of my selfish passions.
\par 
\par 14. I am clad in a coat that is spotted and shamefully bloodstained by
\par the flow of my passionate and pleasure-loving life.
\par 
\par 15. I have stained the coat of my flesh, and soiled what is in Thy
\par image and likeness, O Saviour.
\par 
\par 16. I fell under the burden of passions and corruption of matter, and
\par from then until now I am oppressed by the enemy.
\par 
\par 17. Having preferred a possessive and pleasure-loving life to
\par spiritual poverty, O Saviour, I am now harnessed with a heavy yoke.
\par (Matthew 5:3)
\par 
\par 18. I have adorned the idol of my flesh with the many-coloured
\par clothing of shameful thoughts, and I am condemned. (I John 5:21)
\par 
\par 19. I have been anxiously concerned only about outward adornment, and
\par have neglected the inner temple made in the image of God. (I Peter
\par 3:3-4)
\par 
\par 20. Having formed by my pleasure-loving desires the deformity of my
\par passions, I have marred the beauty of my mind.
\par 
\par 21. I have buried with passions the beauty of the original image, O
\par Saviour. But seek and find it, like the lost coin. (Luke 15:8)
\par 
\par 22. Like the harlot I cry to Thee: I have sinned, I alone have sinned
\par against Thee. Accept my tears also, O Saviour, as perfume. (Luke
\par 7:37-50)
\par 
\par 23. I have slipped and fallen like David through lack of discipline,
\par and I am covered with filth; but wash me too, O Saviour, with my
\par tears. (II Kings 11:1-4)
\par 
\par 24. Like the publican I cry to Thee: Be merciful, O Saviour, be
\par merciful to me; for no child of Adam has sinned as I against Thee.
\par (Luke 18:13)
\par 
\par 25. No tears, no repentance have I, no compunction. But as God, O
\par Saviour, grant me these.
\par 
\par 26. Close not Thy door to me then, Lord, Lord; but open it to me who
\par repent to Thee. (Matthew 25:11)
\par 
\par 27. O Lover of men, Who wishest all to be saved, in Thy goodness
\par recall me and receive me who repent. (I Timothy 2:4)
\par 
\par 28. Give ear to the sighs and groans of my soul, and accept the drops
\par of my eyes, O Saviour, and save me.
\par 
\par Refrain: Most holy Mother of God, save us.
\par 
\par Theotokion: Spotless Mother of God, only all-hymned Virgin, pray
\par intensely that we may be saved.
\par 
\par Another Eirmos: See, see that I am God, Who rained manna and made water
\par spout from the rock of old for my people in the wilderness, by My right
\par hand, and by My strength alone.
\par 
\par 29. See, see that I am God: give ear, my soul, to the Lord Who is
\par appealing to you, and tear yourself from your former sin, and fear Him
\par as the Avenger, and as your Judge and God. (Deuteronomy 32:35; Hebrews
\par 10:30)
\par 
\par 30. Whom do you resemble, O most sinful soul? Surely the first Cain
\par and that wicked Lamech. For you have stoned your body with evil deeds,
\par and you have murdered your mind with irrational appetites. (Genesis 4;
\par 4:23)
\par 
\par 31. Running through all who lived before the Law, my soul, you have
\par not been like Seth, nor imitated Enos, nor Enoch by translation, nor
\par Noah. But you are seen to be bereft of the life of the righteous.
\par (Genesis 5)
\par 
\par 32. You alone have opened the cataracts of the wrath of God, my soul,
\par and have flooded as the earth all your flesh and actions and life, and
\par have remained outside the Ark of Salvation. (Genesis 6-8)
\par 
\par 33. "I have killed a man to the wounding of myself," said Lamech, "and
\par a young man to my own hurt," he cried out wailing. But you, my soul,
\par do not tremble, while polluting the flesh and defiling the mind.
\par (Genesis 4:23)
\par 
\par 34. O how I have emulated that old murderer Lamech! By my
\par pleasure-loving cravings I have killed my soul as the man, my mind as
\par the young man, and my body as my brother, like Cain the murderer.
\par (Genesis 4:23)
\par 
\par 35. You would have contrived to build a tower, my soul, and erect a
\par stronghold for your lusts, had not the Creator confounded your plans
\par and brought your schemes crashing to earth. (Genesis 11:3-4)
\par 
\par 36. I am struck and wounded! See the arrows of the enemy with which
\par my soul and body are pierced all over! See the wounds, the sores and
\par the mutilations that cry out and betray the blows of my self-chosen
\par passions!
\par 
\par 37. The Lord rained fire from the Lord of old, and burnt up the wanton
\par wickedness of Sodom. But you, my soul, have kindled the fire of hell,
\par in which you are about to be bitterly burnt. (Genesis 19:24)
\par 
\par 38. Know and see that I am God, Who searches hearts, punishes
\par thoughts, reproves actions, and burns sins, and judges the orphan, the
\par humble and the poor. (Deuteronomy 10:18; Psalm 67:5)
\par 
\par Refrain: Holy mother Mary, pray for us.
\par 
\par To St. Mary of Egypt: Thou didst stretch out thy hands to the merciful
\par God, O Mary, when sunk in the lowest vices. And He Who by every means
\par was seeking thy conversion, lovingly stretched out a helping hand as to
\par Peter.
\par 
\par Refrain: Holy mother Mary, pray for us.
\par 
\par To St. Mary of Egypt: With all eagerness and love thou didst run to
\par Christ, abandoning thy former way of sin. And being nourished in the
\par untrodden wilderness, thou didst chastely fulfil His divine
\par commandments.
\par 
\par Refrain: Holy father Andrew, pray for us.
\par 
\par To St. Andrew of Crete: Let us see, let us see, O soul, our Lord and
\par God's love for men. So before the end let us fall down before Him with
\par tears and cry: By the prayers of Andrew, O Saviour, have mercy on us.
\par 
\par Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
\par 
\par To The Trinity: Unoriginate, uncreated Trinity, indivisible Unity,
\par accept me who repent, save me who have sinned. I am Thy creation,
\par despise me not, but spare me and deliver me from the fire of
\par condemnation.
\par 
\par Now and ever, and to the ages of ages. Amen.
\par 
\par Theotokion: Spotless lady, Mother of God, hope of those who run to
\par thee, and haven of those in distress, obtain grace for me from the
\par merciful One, Thy Son and Creator, by thy prayers.
\par 
\par 
\par Song 3.
\par 
\par Eirmos: Establish Thy Church on the unshakable rock of Thy
\par commandments, O Christ,
\par 
\par Refrain: Have mercy on me, O God, have mercy on me.
\par 
\par Troparia:
\par 
\par 1. The Lord rained fire from the Lord, my soul, and burnt up the
\par former land of Sodom. (Genesis 19:24)
\par 
\par 2. Escape to the mountain like Lot, my soul, and make Zoar your refuge
\par in time. (Genesis 19:22)
\par 
\par 3. Run from the burning, my soul! Run from the heat of Sodom! Run
\par from the destruction of the divine flame. (Deuteronomy 4:24; Hebrews
\par 12:29)
\par 
\par 4. I confess to Thee, O Saviour, I have sinned, I have sinned against
\par Thee, but absolve and forgive me in Thy compassion.
\par 
\par 5. I alone have sinned against Thee, sinned above all men. O Christ
\par my Saviour, spurn me not.
\par 
\par 6. Thou art the good Shepherd; seek me, Thy lamb, and neglect not me
\par who have gone astray. (John 10:11-14)
\par 
\par 7. Thou art my sweet Jesus, Thou art my Creator; in Thee, O Saviour, I
\par shall be justified.
\par 
\par Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
\par 
\par To The Trinity: O Trinity, Unity, God, save us from delusion and
\par temptations and distressing circumstances.
\par 
\par Now and ever, and to the ages of ages. Amen.
\par 
\par Theotokion: Rejoice, God-receiving womb! Rejoice, throne of the Lord!
\par Rejoice, Mother of our Life!
\par 
\par Another Eirmos: Establish, O Lord, my unstable heart on the rock of Thy
\par commandments, for Thou only art Holy and Lord.
\par 
\par 8. In Thee, the Conqueror of death, I have found the Source of Life,
\par and from my heart I cry to Thee before my end: I have sinned, be
\par merciful, save me.
\par 
\par 9. I have imitated those who were licentious in Noah's time, and I
\par have earned a share in their condemnation of drowning in the flood.
\par (Genesis 6)
\par 
\par 10. I have sinned, O Lord, I have sinned against Thee. Be merciful to
\par me. For there is no one who has sinned among men whom I have not
\par surpassed by my sins.
\par 
\par 11. You have imitated Ham, that spurner of his father, my soul. You
\par have not concealed your neighbour's shame by returning to him looking
\par backwards.[2] (Genesis 9:20-27)
\par 
\par 12. You have not inherited Shem's blessing, wretched soul, nor have
\par you received that vast possession like Japheth in the land of
\par forgiveness. (Genesis 9:26-27)
\par 
\par 13. Come out, my soul, from sin, from the land of Haran! Come into
\par the land of eternal life flowing with incorruption which Abraham
\par inherited. (Genesis 12:4)
\par 
\par 14. You have heard, my soul, how Abraham of old left the land of his
\par fathers and became a nomad. Imitate his resolution. (Genesis 12:1)
\par 
\par 15. At the Oak of Mamre the Patriarch entertained Angels, and
\par inherited in his old age the spoil of the promise. (Genesis 18:1)
\par 
\par 16. Knowing, my wretched soul, how Isaac was mystically offered to the
\par Lord as a new sacrifice and holocaust, imitate his resolution. (Genesis
\par 22:2)
\par 
\par 17. You have heard of Ishmael (be watchful, my soul!) who was driven
\par out as the son of a slave-girl. Beware lest you suffer something
\par similar by your lusting. (Genesis 21:10)
\par 
\par 18. You, my soul, have become like Hagar the Egyptian of old. You
\par have become enslaved by your own choice and have a new Ishmael -
\par stubborn self-will. (Genesis 16:15)
\par 
\par 19. You know, my soul, of the Ladder shown to Jacob reaching from
\par earth to Heaven. Why have you not clung to the sure step of piety?
\par (Genesis 28:12)
\par 
\par 20. Imitate that Priest of God and solitary King who was an image of
\par the life of Christ in the world among men. (cf. Melchizedek: Hebrews
\par 7:1-4; Genesis 14:18)
\par 
\par 21. Do not be a pillar of salt, my soul, by turning back; but let the
\par example of the Sodomites frighten you, and take refuge up in Zoar.
\par (Genesis 19:26)
\par 
\par 22. Run, my soul, like Lot from the fire of sin; run from Sodom and
\par Gomorrah; run from the flame of every irrational desire. (Genesis 19)
\par 
\par 23. Have mercy, O Lord, have mercy on me, I implore Thee, when Thou
\par comest with Thy Angels to requite us all as our actions deserve.
\par 
\par 24. Reject not the prayer of those who praise Thee, O Lord; but have
\par compassion on us, O Lover of men, and to those who ask with faith grant
\par forgiveness.
\par 
\par Refrain: Holy mother Mary, pray for us.
\par 
\par To St. Mary of Egypt: I am hard pressed by the waves and billows of my
\par sins, mother. But now bring me safely through, and lead me to the
\par haven of divine repentance.
\par 
\par Refrain: Holy mother Mary, pray for us.
\par 
\par To St. Mary of Egypt: In offering a fervent prayer at this time to the
\par compassionate Mother of God, O Saint, by thy intercession open to me
\par the divine right of entry.
\par 
\par Refrain: Holy father Andrew, pray for us.
\par 
\par To St. Andrew of Crete: By thy prayers grant me release from my debts,
\par O Andrew, prelate of Crete, for thou art an unsurpassed guide to the
\par mysteries of repentance.
\par 
\par Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
\par 
\par To The Trinity: Simple, uncreated Unity, unoriginate Nature praised in
\par a Trinity of Persons, save us who with faith worship Thy power.
\par 
\par Now and ever, and to the ages of ages. Amen.
\par 
\par Theotokion: O Mother of God, unwedded thou gavest birth in time to the
\par timeless Son of the Father, And - O strange wonder! - thou remainest a
\par Virgin while suckling Him.
\par 
\par And again the Eirmos:
\par 
\par Establish, O Lord, my unstable heart on The rock of Thy commandments,
\par for Thou only art Holy and Lord.
\par 
\par 
\par Little Litany: Again and again in peace ...
\par 
\par Exclamation: For Thou art our God ...
\par 
\par 
\par Sedalion, tone 8, the work of Joseph:
\par 
\par O divinely shining lights, Apostles and eyewitnesses of the Saviour,
\par enlighten us in the darkness of life, that we may walk honestly as in
\par the day, routing the passions of the night with the lamp of temperance
\par and continence, and may see the glorious Passion of Christ rejoicing.
\par 
\par Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
\par 
\par 
\par Another, the work of Theodore:
\par 
\par O God-chosen band of the Twelve Apostles, offer now especially prayer
\par to Christ, that we may all finish the course of the Fast, completing
\par the prayers with compunction, and zealously practising the virtues,
\par that we may attain to see the glorious Resurrect ion of Christ our God,
\par offering Him glory and praise.
\par 
\par Now and ever, and to the ages of ages. Amen.
\par 
\par Theotokion: Pray with the Apostles, O Mother of God, to the
\par incomprehensible Son and Word of God, Who beyond understanding was
\par ineffably born of thee, that He may bestow true peace on the world, and
\par before our end grant us forgiveness of sins, and in thy extreme
\par goodness make thy servants fit for the Kingdom of Heaven.
\par 
\par 
\par Second half of the Life of Saint Mary of Egypt is read here.
\par 
\par 
\par TRIODION or THREE SONGS (without bows) The work of Joseph.
\par 
\par 
\par Song 4. Tone 8.
\par 
\par Eirmos: I have heard, O Lord, the mystery of Thy plan, I contemplate
\par Thy works and glorify Thy divine nature.
\par 
\par Refrain: Holy Apostles, pray for us.
\par 
\par Troparia:
\par 
\par 1. Having lived in continence,[3] the enlightened Apostles of Christ
\par make easy for us the time of continence by their divine intercessions.
\par 
\par 2. Like a twelve-stringed instrument, the divine choir of the
\par Disciples sings the song of salvation, and confounds the racket of the
\par evil one.
\par 
\par 3. With showers of the Spirit, O all-blessed Apostles, you have
\par watered everything under the sun and banished the drought of
\par polytheism.
\par 
\par Refrain: Most holy Mother of God, save us.
\par 
\par Theotokion: Humble and save me who have lived high-mindedly, O all-pure
\par Virgin, who gavest birth to Him Who exalted our humbled nature.
\par 
\par 
\par ANOTHER TRIODION, the work of Theodore.
\par 
\par Eirmos: I have heard, O Lord, the report of Thee, and am afraid. I
\par contemplate Thy works and glorify Thy power, O Lord.
\par 
\par Refrain: Holy Apostles, pray for us.
\par 
\par Troparia:
\par 
\par 4. Most holy choir of Apostles, pray to the Creator of all and ask Him
\par to have mercy on us who sing your praises.
\par 
\par 5. As workers who cultivated the whole world with the word of God, O
\par Apostles of Christ, you always offered Him your fruits.
\par 
\par 6. You were a vineyard for the truly beloved Christ, for from you the
\par wine of the Spirit gushed into the world, O Apostles.
\par 
\par Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
\par 
\par To The Trinity: Eternal, co-equal, all-powerful Holy Trinity; Father,
\par Word and Holy Spirit; God, Light and Life, guard Thy flock.
\par 
\par Now and ever, and to the ages of ages. Amen.
\par 
\par Theotokion: Rejoice, fiery throne! Rejoice, luminous lamp! Rejoice,
\par mountain of sanctification, ark of life, tabernacle, holy of holies.
\par 
\par 
\par CONTINUATION OF THE GREAT CANON.
\par 
\par 
\par Song 4.
\par 
\par Eirmos: The Prophet heard of Thy coming, O Lord, and was afraid that
\par Thou wast to be born of a Virgin and appear to men, and he said "I have
\par heard the report of Thee and am afraid." Glory to Thy power, O Lord.
\par (Habbakuk 3:2)
\par 
\par Refrain: Have mercy on me, O God, have mercy on me.
\par 
\par Troparia:
\par 
\par 1. Despise not Thy works and forsake not Thy creation, O just Judge
\par and Lover of men, though I alone have sinned as a man more than any
\par man. But being Lord of all, Thou hast power to pardon sins. (Mark
\par 2:10)
\par 
\par 2. The end is drawing near, my soul, is drawing near! But you neither
\par care nor prepare. The time is growing short. Rise! The Judge is near
\par at the very doors. Like a dream, like a flower, the time of this life
\par passes. Why do we bustle about in vain? (Matthew 24:33; Psalm 38:7)
\par 
\par 3. Come to your senses, my soul! Consider the deeds you have done,
\par and bring them before your eyes, and pour out the drops of your tears.
\par Boldly tell your thoughts and deeds to Christ, and be acquitted.
\par 
\par 4. There has never been a sin or act or vice in life that I have not
\par committed, O Saviour. I have sinned in mind, word and choice, in
\par purpose, will and action, as no one else has ever done.
\par 
\par 5. Therefore I am condemned, wretch that I am, therefore I am doomed
\par by my own conscience, than which there is nothing in the world more
\par rigorous. O my Judge and Redeemer Who knowest my heart, spare and
\par deliver and save me, Thy servant.
\par 
\par 6. The ladder of old which the great Patriarch saw, my soul, is a
\par model of mounting by action and ascent by knowledge. So, if you wish
\par to live in activity, knowledge and contemplation, be renewed. (Genesis
\par 28:12; Romans 12:2; Titus 3:5)
\par 
\par 7. Because of his crying need the Patriarch endured the scorching heat
\par of the day, and he bore the frost of the night, daily making gains,
\par shepherding, struggling, slaving, in order to win two wives. (Genesis
\par 29:16-30; 31-40)
\par 
\par 8. By the two wives understand action and direct knowledge in
\par contemplation: Leah as action, for she had many children, and Rachel as
\par knowledge, which is obtained by much labour. For without labours, my
\par soul, neither action nor contemplation will achieve success.
\par 
\par 9. Watch, my soul! Be courageous like the great Patriarchs, that you
\par may acquire activity and awareness, and be a mind that sees God, and
\par may reach in contemplation the innermost darkness, and be a great
\par trader. (Genesis 32:28; Luke 19:13-15)
\par 
\par 10. The great Patriarch, by begetting the twelve Patriarchs,
\par mystically set up for you, my soul, a ladder of active ascent, having
\par wisely offered his children as rungs, and his steps as ascents.
\par 
\par 11. You have emulated the hated Esau, my soul, and have given up your
\par birthright of pristine beauty to your supplanter, and you have lost
\par your father's blessing, and have been tripped up twice in action and
\par knowledge. Therefore, O wretch, repent now. ( Genesis 25:31; 27:37)
\par 
\par 12. Esau was called Edom for his extreme passion of madness for
\par women. For ever burning with incontinence and stained with pleasures,
\par he was named Edom, which means a red-hot sin-loving soul. (Genesis
\par 25:30)
\par 
\par 13. Have you heard of Job who was made holy on a dunghill, O my soul?
\par You have not emulated his courage, nor had his firmness of purpose in
\par all you have learned or known, or in your temptations, but you have
\par proved unpersevering. (Job 1)
\par 
\par 14. He who was formerly on a throne is now naked on a dunghill and
\par covered with sores. He who had many children and was much admired is
\par suddenly childless and homeless. Yet he regarded the dunghill as a
\par palace and his sores as pearls. (Job 2:7-8)
\par 
\par 15. The opulent and righteous man, arrayed in royal dignity, crown and
\par purple, abounding in wealth and cattle, was suddenly shorn of his
\par riches, glory and kingdom and became a beggar.
\par 
\par 16. If he who was righteous and blameless beyond all did not escape
\par the snares and nets of the deceiver, what will you do, my soul, who are
\par sin-loving and wretched, if something unexpected happens to you?
\par 
\par 17. My body is defiled, my spirit is sullied, and I am all covered
\par with sores. But as the Physician, O Christ, heal, wash and cleanse
\par both body and spirit with repentance, and make me, my Saviour, purer
\par than snow.
\par 
\par 18. Thou didst lay down Thy body and blood for ail, O crucified Word:
\par Thy body in order to renew me, Thy blood in order to wash me, and Thou
\par didst surrender Thy spirit, O Christ, in order to bring me to the
\par Father.
\par 
\par 19. Thou hast wrought salvation in the midst of the earth, O merciful
\par Creator, that we may be saved. Thou wast voluntarily crucified on the
\par Tree: Eden that was closed is open; things on high and below, creation
\par and all peoples are saved and worship Thee. (Psalm 73:12)
\par 
\par 20. May the blood and water that wells from Thy side be a font for me
\par and a draught of forgiveness, that I may be cleansed, anointed and
\par refreshed by both as with drink and unction by Thy living words, O
\par Word. (John 19:34; Acts 7:38)
\par 
\par 21. I am bereft of the bridal hall, I am bereft of the marriage and
\par supper. My lamp has gone out for want of oil, the door has been locked
\par while I was asleep; the supper is eaten; and I, bound hand and foot, am
\par cast outside. (Matthew 25; Luke 14:7-35; Matthew 22:1-14)
\par 
\par 22. The Church has acquired Thy life-giving side as a chalice, from
\par which gushes forth for us a twofold torrent of forgiveness and
\par knowledge as a type of the two covenants, Old and New, O our Saviour.
\par 
\par 23. Brief is my lifetime and full of pain and wickedness, but accept
\par me in penitence and recall me to awareness of Thee. May I never be the
\par possession or food of the enemy. O Saviour, have compassion on me.
\par (Genesis 47:9)
\par 
\par 24. Boastful I am, and hard-hearted, all in vain and for nothing.
\par Condemn me not with the Pharisee, but rather grant me the humility of
\par the Publican, O only merciful and just Judge, and number me with him.
\par (Luke 18:9-14)
\par 
\par 25. I have sinned, I know, O merciful Lord, and outraged the vessel of
\par my flesh, but accept me in penitence and recall me to awareness of
\par Thee. May I never be the possession or food of the enemy. O Saviour,
\par have compassion on me.
\par 
\par 26. I am become my own idol, and have injured my soul with passions, O
\par merciful Lord, but accept me in penitence and recall me to awareness of
\par Thee. May I never be the possession or food of the enemy. O Saviour,
\par have compassion on me.
\par 
\par 27. I have not listened to Thy voice, I have disobeyed Thy Scripture,
\par O Lawgiver, but accept me in penitence and recall me to awareness of
\par Thee. May I never be the possession or food of the enemy. O Saviour,
\par have compassion on me.
\par 
\par Refrain: Holy mother Mary, pray for us.
\par 
\par To St. Mary of Egypt: By living a bodiless life in a body, O Saint,
\par thou hast truly received great grace from God to intercede for those
\par who faithfully honour thee. Therefore we implore thee: deliver us by
\par thy prayers from trials of all kinds.
\par 
\par Refrain: Holy mother Mary, pray for us.
\par 
\par To St. Mary of Egypt: Though dragged down to the depth of great
\par offences, thou wast not held there. But with better thought thou didst
\par return by action to consummate virtue beyond all expectation, to the
\par amazement of angel kind, O Mary.
\par 
\par Refrain: Holy father Andrew, pray for us.
\par 
\par To St. Andrew of Crete: O Andrew, glory of the Fathers, standing before
\par the transcendingly divine Trinity, by thy prayers cease not to
\par intercede that we who invoke thee with love may be delivered from
\par torment, O divine intercessor, adornment of Crete.
\par 
\par Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
\par 
\par To The Trinity: I confess Thee to be undivided in essence, unconfused
\par in persons, One Triune Divinity, co-enthroned and co-reigning. I sing
\par Thee the great song thrice sung on high.
\par 
\par Now and ever, and to the ages of ages. Amen.
\par 
\par Theotokion: Thou givest birth and livest a virgin life, and in both
\par remainest a virgin by nature. He Who is born of thee renews the laws
\par of nature, and a womb gives birth without travail. Where God wills,
\par the order of nature is overruled; for He does whatever He wishes.
\par 
\par 
\par Song 5.
\par 
\par Eirmos: Out of the night watching early for Thee, enlighten me, I pray,
\par O Lover of men, and guide even me in Thy commandments, and teach me, O
\par Saviour, to do Thy will.
\par 
\par Refrain: Have mercy on me, O God, have mercy on me.
\par 
\par Troparia:
\par 
\par 1. I have passed my life ever in night, for the night of sin has been
\par to me thick fog and darkness; but make me, O Saviour, a Son of the
\par day. (Ephesians 5:8)
\par 
\par 2. Like Reuben, wretch that I am, I have planned an unprincipled and
\par lawless act against God Most High, having defiled my bed as he defiled
\par that of his father. (Genesis 35:21; 49:3-4)
\par 
\par 3. I confess to Thee, O Christ my King: I have sinned, I have sinned,
\par like Joseph's brothers of old, who sold the fruit of purity and
\par chastity. (Genesis 37)
\par 
\par 4. Righteous Joseph was given up by his brothers, that sweet soul was
\par sold into slavery, as a type of the Lord; and you, my soul, have sold
\par yourself completely to your vices. (Genesis 37:27-28)
\par 
\par 5. Imitate, wretched and worthless soul, righteous Joseph and his pure
\par mind, and do not be wanton with irrational desires, ever
\par transgressing. (Genesis 39:7-23)
\par 
\par 6. If Joseph of old also occupied a pit, O Sovereign Lord, yet it was
\par as a type of Thy Burial and Rising. But will I ever offer Thee
\par anything like it? (Genesis 37)
\par 
\par 7. You have heard, my soul, of Moses' ark of old, borne on the waters
\par and waves of the river as in a shrine, which escaped the bitter tragedy
\par of Pharaoh's edict. (Exodus 1:22 - 2:3)
\par 
\par 8. If you have heard of the midwives, wretched soul, who of old killed
\par in infancy the manly issue and practice of chastity, then like the
\par great Moses, suck wisdom. (Exodus 1:16; 2-9; Acts 7:22)
\par 
\par 9. You, wretched soul, have not struck and killed your Egyptian mind,
\par like great Moses. Say, then, how will you dwell in that desert
\par solitude where the passions desert you through repentance? (Exodus
\par 2:12)
\par 
\par 10. Great Moses dwelt in the wilds, my soul. So go and imitate his
\par life, that you too may attain by contemplation to the vision of God in
\par the bush. (Exodus 3:1)
\par 
\par 11. Imagine Moses' staff striking the sea and fixing the deep as a
\par type of the divine Cross, by which you too, my soul, can accomplish
\par great things. (Exodus 14:16)
\par 
\par 12. Aaron offered to God the fire pure and undefiled; but Hophni and
\par Phinehas, like you, my soul, offered to God a foul and rebellious
\par life. (Leviticus 9:21-24; I Kings 2:12-34)
\par 
\par 13. How heavy in character I have become, in soul and body, like
\par Jannes and Jambres in Pharaoh's bitter service, and my mind has sunk
\par low. But help me, O Lord. (Exodus 7:11; II Timothy 3:8)
\par 
\par 14. I, wretch that I am, have rolled my mind in mud. But wash me, O
\par Lord, in the bath of my tears, I pray Thee, and make the robe of my
\par flesh as white as snow.
\par 
\par 15. When I examine my actions, O Saviour, I see that I have gone
\par beyond all men in sins; for I have sinned with knowledge consciously,
\par and not in ignorance.
\par 
\par 16. Spare, spare, O Lord, Thy works. I have sinned; forgive me, for
\par Thou alone art pure by nature, and apart from Thee there is none
\par without defilement. (I Peter 3:21)
\par 
\par 17. Being God, for my sake Thou didst take my form, and didst work
\par miracles, healing lepers and bracing paralytics; and Thou didst stop
\par the flow of blood of the woman with hemorrhage, O Saviour, through the
\par touch of Thy hem. (Philemon 2:6; Matthew 4:24; Luke 8:43-48)
\par 
\par 18. Imitate, wretched soul, the woman with hemorrhage. Run to Christ
\par and hold His hem, that you may be healed of your maladies and hear from
\par Him, "Your faith has saved you." (Matthew 9:22)
\par 
\par 19. Imitate, my soul, the woman bent earthward; come and fall down at
\par the feet of Jesus, that He may straighten you to walk upright in the
\par footsteps of the Lord. (Luke 13:11)
\par 
\par 20. Though Thou art a deep well, O Lord, pour on me streams from Thy
\par immaculate wounds, that like the Samaritan woman I may drink and thirst
\par no more; for from Thee gush rivers of life. (John 4:13-15)
\par 
\par 21. May my tears be for me a Siloam, O Sovereign Lord, that I may wash
\par the eyes of my soul and mentally see Thee Who art that light which was
\par before creation. (John 9:7; Genesis 1:2-19)
\par 
\par Refrain: Holy mother Mary, pray for us.
\par 
\par To St. Mary of Egypt: Thou, all-blessed one, didst yearn with matchless
\par love and longing to worship the Tree of Life, and thy desire was
\par granted; make us also worthy to attain to the glory on high.
\par 
\par Refrain: Holy mother Mary, pray for us.
\par 
\par To St. Mary of Egypt: Having crossed Jordan's stream, thou didst find
\par rest by giving a wide berth to the deadening pleasure of the flesh,
\par from which deliver us also by thy prayers, O saint.
\par 
\par Refrain: Holy father Andrew, pray for us.
\par 
\par To St. Andrew of Crete: Eminent as the best of pastors, O wise Andrew,
\par I pray thee with great love and veneration that by thy intercessions I
\par may obtain salvation and eternal life.
\par 
\par Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
\par 
\par To The Trinity: Thee, O Trinity, we glorify, the one God: Holy, Holy,
\par Holy art Thou, Father, Son and Spirit, simple Being, Unity ever
\par adored.
\par 
\par Now and ever, and to the ages of ages. Ames.
\par 
\par Theotokion: From thee, O pure maiden Mother and Virgin, God Who created
\par the worlds and ages was clad in my clay and united to Himself human
\par nature.
\par 
\par 
\par Song 6.
\par 
\par Eirmos: I cried with my whole heart to the merciful God, and He heard
\par me from the lowest hell and raised my life out of corruption.
\par 
\par Refrain: Have mercy on me, O God, have mercy on me.
\par 
\par Troparia:
\par 
\par 1. I sincerely offer Thee with a pure intention, O Saviour, the tears
\par of my eyes and groans from the depths of my heart, crying: O God, I
\par have sinned against Thee; be merciful to me. (Luke 18:13)
\par 
\par 2. You, my soul, have revolted from the Lord like Dathan and Abiram.
\par But with all your heart cry, "Spare!" that a yawning gulf of the earth
\par may not swallow you. (Numbers 16)
\par 
\par 3. Like a stampeding heifer stung to madness, my soul, you have
\par resembled Ephraim. Winged with action, resolve and contemplation, save
\par your life like a gazelle from the noose. (Hosea 4:16)
\par 
\par 4. Let Moses' hand assure us, my soul, how God can whiten and cleanse
\par a leprous life. So do not despair of yourself, even though you are
\par leprous. (Exodus 4:6-8)
\par 
\par 5. The waves of my sins, O Saviour, as in the Red Sea recoiled and
\par covered me unawares, like the Egyptians of old and their charioteers.
\par (Exodus 14:7-31)
\par 
\par 6. Like Israel of old, my soul, you have had a foolish affection. For
\par like a brute you have preferred to divine manna the pleasure-loving
\par gluttony of the passions. (Numbers 21:5; I Corinthians 10:9)
\par 
\par 7. The wells of Canaanite thoughts, my soul, you have prized above the
\par Rock with the cleft from which the river of wisdom like a chalice pours
\par forth streams of theology. (Genesis 21:23; Exodus 17:6)
\par 
\par 8. Swine's flesh and hotpots and Egyptian food you, my soul, have
\par preferred to heavenly manna, as of old the senseless people in the
\par wilderness. (Exodus 16:3; Numbers 11:4-7)
\par 
\par 9. When Thy servant Moses struck the rock with his staff, he
\par mystically typified Thy life-giving side, O Saviour, from which we all
\par draw the water of life. (Numbers 20:11; I Corinthians 10:4)
\par 
\par 10. Explore and spy out the Land of Promise like Joshua the Son of
\par Nun, my soul, and see what it is like, and settle in it by observing
\par the laws. (Joshua 2)
\par 
\par 11. Rise and make war against the passions of the flesh, as Joshua did
\par against Amalek, and ever conquer the Gibeonites - illusive thoughts.
\par (Exodus 17:8; Joshua 8:21)
\par 
\par 12. Pass through the flowing nature of time, like the Ark of old, and
\par take possession of the Land of Promise, my soul: It is God's command.
\par (Joshua 3:17; Deuteronomy 1:8)
\par 
\par 13. As Thou savedst Peter when he cried, "Save me!" forestall and
\par deliver me from the beast, O Saviour; stretch out Thy hand and raise me
\par from the depths of sin. (Matthew 14:25-31)
\par 
\par 14. I know Thee as a calm haven, O Lord, Lord Christ; but forestall
\par and deliver me from the innermost depths of sin and despair.
\par 
\par 15. I am the coin with the royal image which was lost of old, O
\par Saviour. But light the lamp, Thy Forerunner, O Word; seek and find Thy
\par image. (Luke 15:8)
\par 
\par Refrain: Holy mother Mary, pray for us.
\par 
\par To St. Mary of Egypt: To extinguish the flame of the passions, O Mary,
\par thou didst ever shed rivers of tears and fire thy soul with divine
\par love. Grant also to me, thy servant, the grace of tears.
\par 
\par Refrain: Holy mother Mary, pray for us.
\par 
\par To St. Mary of Egypt: Thou didst acquire heavenly dispassion by thy
\par sublime life on earth, O mother. Therefore pray that those who sing of
\par thee my be delivered from the grip of passions.
\par 
\par Refrain: Holy father Andrew, pray for us.
\par 
\par To St. Andrew of Crete: Knowing thee to be the shepherd and prelate of
\par Crete and intercessor for the world, O Andrew, I run to thee and cry:
\par Deliver me, father, from the depths of sin.
\par 
\par Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
\par 
\par To The Trinity: I am the Trinity, simple and undivided, divided
\par Personally, and I am the Unity, united in nature, says the Father, the
\par Son, and the Divine Spirit.
\par 
\par Now and ever, and to the ages of ages. Amen.
\par 
\par Theotokion: Thy womb bore God for us Who took our form. Implore Him as
\par the Creator of all, O Mother of God, that through thy intercessions we
\par may be justified.
\par 
\par And again the Eirmos:
\par 
\par I cried with my whole heart to the merciful God, and He heard me from
\par the lowest hell and raised my life out of corruption.
\par 
\par 
\par Little Litany: Again and again in peace ...
\par 
\par Exclamation: For Thou art the King of Peace and Saviour of our souls,
\par and to Thee we send up the glory, to the Father, and to the Son, and to
\par the Holy Spirit, now and ever, and to the ages of ages.
\par 
\par Choir: Amen.
\par 
\par 
\par Kontakion, tone 6:
\par 
\par My soul, my soul, arise! Why are you sleeping? The end is drawing
\par near, and you will be confounded. Awake, then, and be watchful, that
\par Christ our God may spare you, Who is everywhere present and fills all
\par things.
\par 
\par Eikos:
\par 
\par Seeing Christ's healing temple opened, and how health Streams from Him
\par to Adam, the devil suffered and was stricken. Then he wailed as if in
\par mortal danger and to his friends raised a bitter howl: what shall I do
\par to the Son of Mary? The Bethlehemite is killing illing me, Who is
\par everywhere present and fills all things.
\par 
\par Then we sing the Beatitudes:
\par 
\par In Thy Kingdom remember us, O Lord, when Thou comest in Thy Kingdom.
\par 
\par 1. Thou didst make the Robber a citizen of Paradise on the Cross when
\par he cried to Thee, O Christ, "Remember me!" Make me, unworthy as I am,
\par also worthy of his repentance. (Luke 23:42,43)
\par 
\par Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the Kingdom of Heaven.
\par 
\par 2. Have you heard, my soul, of Manoah of old who saw God in a waking
\par vision and received from his barren wife the fruit of God's promise?
\par Let us imitate his piety. (Judges 13)
\par 
\par Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted.
\par 
\par 3. You, my soul, have emulated Samson's easy-going laxity; you have
\par shorn the glory of your deeds, and by love of pleasure have surrendered
\par to the Philistines a chaste and blessed life. (Judges 14)
\par 
\par Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth.
\par 
\par 4. He who conquered the Philistines with an ass's jawbone is now found
\par to be a dissolute slave of passionate intercourse. But avoid, my soul,
\par his example, his action, his laxity.
\par 
\par Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they
\par shall be filled.
\par 
\par 5. Barak and Jephthah, military leaders, with manly-minded Deborah,
\par were promoted to be Judges of Israel. Learn courage from their heroic
\par deeds, my soul, and master yourself. (Judges 4:11)
\par 
\par Blessed are the merciful, for the shall obtain mercy.
\par 
\par 6. You know, my soul, of Jael's bravery, who impaled Sisera of old and
\par wrought salvation with a tent-peg, by which (are you listening?) the
\par Cross is typified to you. (Judges 5)
\par 
\par Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God.
\par 
\par 7. Offer the sacrifice of praise, my soul, offer action as a daughter
\par purer than Jephthah's, and slay your carnal passions as a sacrifice to
\par your Lord. (Judges 11)
\par 
\par Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called children of God.
\par 
\par 8. Think, my soul, of Gideon's fleece. Receive the dew from Heaven;
\par stoop down like a dog and drink the water that flows from the Law by
\par the pressure of study. (Judges 6-8)
\par 
\par Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for
\par theirs is the Kingdom of Heaven.
\par 
\par 9. You, my soul, for lack of understanding have drawn upon yourself
\par the priest Eli's condemnation, by allowing the passions to act sinfully
\par in you, as he allowed his children. (I Kings 2-4)
\par 
\par Blessed are you when men revile you, and persecute you, and say all
\par manner of evil against you falsely and on My account.
\par 
\par 10. The Levite among the Judges, by negligence, divided his wife among
\par the twelve tribes, my soul, in order to blazon the lawless outrage of
\par Benjamin. (Judges 19-20)
\par 
\par Rejoice and be exceedingly glad, for great is your reward in Heaven.
\par 
\par 11. Chaste Hannah when praying moved her lips in praise, while her
\par voice was not yet heard; but yet, though barren, she bears a son her
\par prayer deserved. (I Kings 1)
\par 
\par Remember us, O Lord, when Thou comest in Thy Kingdom.
\par 
\par 12. Hannah's child, the great Samuel, was reckoned among the Judges,
\par and he was brought up in Arimathea and in the House of the Lord.
\par Imitate him, my soul, and before judging others, judge your own
\par actions. (I Kings 16:13)
\par 
\par Remember us, O Master, when Thou comest in Thy Kingdom.
\par 
\par 13. David was chosen to be king, and he was royally anointed with the
\par horn of divine oil. So if you, my soul, desire the Kingdom on high, be
\par anointed with the oil of tears.
\par 
\par Remember us, O Holy One, when Thou comest in Thy Kingdom.
\par 
\par 14. Have mercy on Thy creation, O merciful Lord; have compassion on
\par the work of Thy hands, and spare all who have sinned, and even me who
\par above all have ignored Thy commands.
\par 
\par Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
\par 
\par To The Trinity: Unoriginate both by generation and procession, the
\par Father Who begot I worship, I glorify the Son Who is begotten, and I
\par hymn the Holy Spirit, co-effulgent with the Father and the Son.
\par 
\par Now and ever, and to the ages of ages. Amen.
\par 
\par Theotokion: We worship thy supernatural childbirth, without dividing
\par the natural glory of thy Child, O Mother of God. For He is confessed
\par to be one in Person and twofold in Nature.
\par 
\par 
\par Song 7.
\par 
\par Eirmos: We have sinned, transgressed, done wrong before Thee, we have
\par not watched or done as Thou hast commanded us. But do not give us up
\par utterly, O God of our Fathers.
\par 
\par Refrain: Have mercy on me, O God, have mercy on me.
\par 
\par Troparia:
\par 
\par 1. I have sinned, offended and rejected Thy commandment, for I have
\par advanced in sins and added wounds to my sores. But in Thy compassion
\par have mercy on me, O God of our Fathers.
\par 
\par 2. I have confessed to Thee, my Judge, the secrets of my heart. See
\par my humility, see also my distress, and attend to my judgment now. And
\par in Thy compassion have mercy on me, O God of our Fathers.
\par 
\par 3. When Saul of old lost his father's asses, besides getting news of
\par them he incidentally found a kingdom. But watch, my soul, lest without
\par noticing it, you prefer your animal cravings to the Kingdom of Christ.
\par (I Kings 10:2)
\par 
\par 4. If David, the father of our Divine Lord, doubly sinned of old, my
\par soul, when he was pierced with the arrow of adultery and struck with
\par the spear of remorse for murder, yet you have a sickness graver than
\par deeds in your will and appetites. (II Kings 11; 12:1-23)
\par 
\par 5. David once joined sin to sin, for he mixed adultery with murder,
\par yet he immediately offered double repentance. But you, my soul, have
\par done things more wicked without repenting to God.
\par 
\par 6. David of old composed a song, painting it as in a picture by which
\par he exposes the deed he had done, crying: Have mercy on me, for against
\par Thee only have I sinned, Who art God of all. Cleanse me. (Psalm 50)
\par 
\par 7. When the Ark was being carried on a wagon, and when one of the oxen
\par slipped, Uzzah only touched it and experienced the wrath of God. But
\par avoid, my soul, his presumption and truly reverence divine things. (II
\par Kings 6:6)
\par 
\par 8. You have heard of Absalom, how he rose against nature. You know
\par his accursed deeds and how he insulted the bed of his father David. But
\par you have imitated his passionate and pleasure-loving cravings. (II
\par Kings 15; 16:21)
\par 
\par 9. You have enslaved your free dignity to your body, my soul, for you
\par have found in satan another Ahitophel and have consented to his
\par counsels. But Christ Himself scattered them, that you may at all
\par events be saved. (II Kings 16:20)
\par 
\par 10. Wonderful Solomon, who was full of the grace of wisdom, at one
\par time did evil in God's sight and fell away from Him. And you, my soul,
\par have resembled him by your accursed life. (III Kings 11; Ecclus
\par 47:12-20)
\par 
\par 11. Carried away by the pleasure of his passions, he defiled himself.
\par Alas, the lover of wisdom is a lover of loose women and estranged from
\par God! And you, my soul, have in mind imitated him by your shameful
\par pleasures. (III Kings 3:12; 11:4-12)
\par 
\par 12. You, my soul, have rivalled Rehoboam who would not listen to his
\par father's advisors, and that vicious slave Jeroboam the apostate of
\par old. But shun such mimicry and cry to God: I have sinned, have
\par compassion on me.(III Kings 12:13-20)
\par 
\par 13. You have rivalled Ahab in defilements, my soul. Alas, you have
\par been a lodging-place of fleshly pollutions and a shameful vessel of
\par passions. But groan from your depths and tell God your sins. (III
\par Kings 16:30)
\par 
\par 14. Elijah once burned a hundred of Jezebel's flunkeys when he had
\par destroyed her shameful prophets as a proof and rebuke for Ahab. But
\par avoid imitating these two, my soul, and master yourself. (IV Kings
\par 1:10-15; III Kings 18:40)
\par 
\par 15. Heaven is closed to you, my soul, and the famine of God has
\par reached you, for you have been disobedient as was Ahab of old to the
\par words of Elijah the Tishbite. But be like the woman of Sarepta, and
\par feed the Prophet's soul. (III Kings 17)
\par 
\par 16. You have piled up sins like Manasseh by deliberate choice, my
\par soul, setting up your passions as idols and multiplying abominations.
\par But now fervently emulate his repentance and acquire compunction. (IV
\par Kings 21; II Chronicles 33)
\par 
\par 17. I fall down before Thee and bring Thee as tears my words: I have
\par sinned like the harlot, and transgressed as no other on earth. But
\par have compassion, O Lord, on Thy work, and recall me.
\par 
\par 18. I have buried Thy image and broken Thy commandment. All my beauty
\par is darkened and my lamp is extinguished by my passions, O Saviour. But
\par have compassion and restore to me, as David sings, joy. (Psalm 50:14)
\par 
\par 19. Return, repent, uncover what is hidden. Say to God Who knows
\par everything: Thou knowest my secrets, O only Saviour; but have mercy on
\par me, as David sings, according to Thy mercy. (Psalm 50)
\par 
\par 20. My days have vanished like a dream on waking. Therefore I weep on
\par my bed like Hezekiah that years may be added to my life. But what
\par Isaiah will come to you, my soul, except the God of all? (IV Kings
\par 20:3; Isaiah 38:2)
\par 
\par Refrain: Holy mother Mary, pray for us.
\par 
\par To St. Mary of Egypt: By crying to the immaculate Mother of God, thou
\par didst repel the rage of passions which once violently harassed thee,
\par and didst put to shame the enemy tempter. But now grant me, thy
\par servant, also help out of trouble.
\par 
\par Refrain: Holy mother Mary, pray for us.
\par 
\par To St. Mary of Egypt: He Whom thou lovest, He Whom thou desirest, He on
\par Whose track thou camest, mother, found thee and granted thee
\par repentance, for He is God Who alone is compassionate. Implore Him
\par unceasingly to deliver us from passions and adversities.
\par 
\par Refrain: Holy Father Andrew, pray for us.
\par 
\par To St. Andrew of Crete: Strengthen me on the rock of faith by thy
\par intercessions, O father, and wall and fortify me with an awed sense of
\par the divine indwelling, and grant me repentance, O Andrew, now. And I
\par implore thee to deliver me from the snares of foes actively seeking my
\par life.
\par 
\par Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
\par 
\par To The Trinity: O Trinity simple and undivided, of one essence and one
\par nature, Lights and Light, three Holies and one Holy, God the Trinity is
\par hymned. But sing, my soul, and glorify the Life and Lives, the God of
\par all.
\par 
\par Now and ever, and to the ages of ages. Amen.
\par 
\par Theotokion: We sing of thee, we bless thee, we worship thee, O Mother
\par of God, for thou gavest birth to one of the inseparable Trinity, the
\par one Son and God, and to us on earth thou hast opened the heavenly
\par realms.
\par 
\par 
\par THE TRIODION
\par 
\par 
\par Song 8. Tone 8.
\par 
\par Eirmos: The Eternal King of Glory, before Whom the Hosts of Heaven are
\par thrilled with awe and the Orders of the Angels tremble, praise Him, O
\par priests, and exalt Him, you people, throughout all ages.
\par 
\par Refrain: Holy Apostles, pray for us.
\par 
\par Troparia:
\par 
\par 1. Like coals of immaterial fire, burn my material passions, and
\par kindle in me now, O Apostles, a longing for divine love.
\par 
\par 2. Let us honour the tuneful trumpets of the Word, through whom the
\par rickety walls of the enemy fell and the battlements of the knowledge of
\par God were built.
\par 
\par 3. Smash the passionate idols of my soul, as you smashed the temples
\par and pillars of the enemy, O Apostles of the Lord, consecrated temples.
\par 
\par Refrain: Most holy Mother of God, save us.
\par 
\par Theotokion: Thou didst contain Him Who is uncontainable by nature, thou
\par didst carry Him Who carries all things, O pure Virgin, thou didst
\par suckle Him Who feeds creation, Christ the Lifegiver.
\par 
\par The Eirmos is repeated: The Eternal King of Glory, before Whom the
\par Hosts of Heaven are thrilled with awe and the Orders of the Angels
\par tremble, praise Him, O priests, and exalt Him, you people, throughout
\par all ages.
\par 
\par Refrain: Holy Apostles, pray for us.
\par 
\par 4. Having built the whole Church with the Spirit as architect, O
\par Apostles of Christ, bless Christ in it throughout the ages.
\par 
\par Refrain: Holy Apostles, pray for us.
\par 
\par 5. By blowing the trumpet of the dogmas, the Apostles have overthrown
\par all the delusion and error of idolatry, and exalted Christ throughout
\par all ages.
\par 
\par Refrain: Holy Apostles, pray for us.
\par 
\par 6. O Apostles, noble company, guardians of the world, and citizens of
\par heaven, deliver from dangers those who ever praise you.
\par 
\par Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
\par 
\par To The Trinity: Triune, all-radiant God, co-glorified and co-enthroned
\par Nature, Father Almighty, Son and Divine Spirit, I sing of Thee for
\par ever.
\par 
\par Now and ever, and to the ages of ages. Amen.
\par 
\par Theotokion: Let us, O you peoples, unceasingly sing of the Mother of
\par God, as an honoured and sublime throne, who alone after childbirth is
\par Mother and Virgin.
\par 
\par 
\par THE GREAT CANON
\par 
\par 
\par Song 8. Tone 6.
\par 
\par Eirmos: Him Whom the heavenly hosts glorify and before Whom Cherubim
\par and Seraphim tremble, let every breath and all creation praise, bless
\par and exalt throughout all ages.
\par 
\par Refrain: Have mercy on me, O God, have mercy on me.
\par 
\par Troparia:
\par 
\par 1. I have sinned, O Saviour, have mercy! Awaken my mind to
\par conversion, accept me who repent, have compassion on me as I cry:
\par Against Thee only have I sinned and acted lawlessly; have mercy on me.
\par 
\par 2. Elijah the charioteer once ascended by the chariot of the virtues
\par as to heaven and was carried above earthly things. Consider then, my
\par soul, this ascent. (IV Kings 2:11)
\par 
\par 3. Jordan's stream of old was made to stand still on either side by
\par Elisha by Elijah's sheepskin. But you, my soul, have not shared this
\par grace owing to incontinence. (IV Kings 2:14)
\par 
\par 4. Elisha received double grace from the Lord when he took up Elijah's
\par sheepskin. But you, my soul, have not shared this grace owing to
\par incontinence. (IV Kings 2:9)
\par 
\par 5. The Shunammite woman of old with right good will entertained the
\par righteous man. But you, my soul, have taken into your house neither
\par stranger nor traveller. Therefore you will be cast out of the bridal
\par hall wailing. (IV Kings 4:8)
\par 
\par 6. You have always imitated the vile mind of Gehazi, O wretched soul.
\par Rid yourself of his love of money, at least in old age; escape from the
\par fire of Gehenna by leaving your evil ways. (IV Kings 5:20-27)
\par 
\par 7. Having emulated Uzziah, my soul, you have his leprosy in you
\par doubled. For you think disgusting thoughts and do outrageous things.
\par Let go of what you are holding and run to repentance. (IV Kings 15:5;
\par II Chronicles 26:19)
\par 
\par 8. Have you heard, my soul, of the Ninevites, who repented before God
\par in sackcloth and ashes? You have not imitated them, but appear to be
\par more crooked than all who have sinned before and after the law. (Jonah
\par 3:5)
\par 
\par 9. You have heard of Jeremiah in the mud pit, my soul, how he cried
\par out with lamentations against the City of Zion, and was seeking tears.
\par Imitate his life of lamentation and you will be saved. (Jeremiah 38:6)
\par 
\par 10. Jonah fled to Tarshish, foreseeing the conversion of the
\par Ninevites; for, being a Prophet, he was aware of God's compassion, and
\par was anxious that his prophesy should not prove false. (Jonah 1:3)
\par 
\par 11. You have heard, my soul, of Daniel in the lion's den, and how he
\par shut the beasts' mouths. You know how the Children who were with
\par Azariah extinguished the flames of the burning furnace by faith.
\par (Daniel 6:16-22; 3:23)
\par 
\par 12. I have reviewed all the people of the Old Testament as examples
\par for you, my soul. Imitate the God-loving deeds of the righteous and
\par shun the sins of the wicked.
\par 
\par 13. Just Judge and Saviour, have mercy on me and deliver me from the
\par fire and the threat which I shall justly incur at the judgment. Forgive
\par me before my end by virtue and repentance.
\par 
\par 14. Like the robber I cry, "Remember me!" Like Peter I weep bitterly,
\par "Release me, O Saviour!" I croak like the publican; I weep like the
\par harlot. Accept my lamentation as once the Canaanite woman. (Luke
\par 23:42; Matthew 26:75; Luke 18:13; Luke 7:37-38; Matthew 15:22-28)
\par 
\par 15. Heal, O Saviour, the corruption of my debased soul, O only
\par Physician. Apply the compress to me, and the oil and wine - works of
\par repentance, compunction and tears. (Luke 10:34)
\par 
\par 16. Imitating the woman of Canaan, I also cry, "Have mercy on me, O
\par Son of David!" I touch Thy hem like the woman with hemorrhage. I weep
\par like Martha and Mary over Lazarus. (Matthew 15:22; Mark 5:27; John
\par 11:33)
\par 
\par 17. The alabaster jar of my tears, O Saviour, I pour out on Thy head
\par as the perfume, and like the harlot I cry to Thee, seeking Thy mercy. I
\par offer prayer and ask to receive forgiveness. (Matthew 26:7; Luke 7:38)
\par 
\par 18. Though no one has sinned against Thee as I, yet accept even me, O
\par compassionate Saviour, repenting with fear and crying with love:
\par Against Thee only have I sinned. I have done wrong, have mercy on me.
\par 
\par 19. Spare, O Saviour, Thy own creation., and seek as Shepherd Thy lost
\par sheep; snatch the stray from the wolf, and make me a pet lamb in Thy
\par sheep pasture. (Psalm 118:176; John 10:11-16)
\par 
\par 20. When Thou sittest as Judge and in Thy compassion showest Thy dread
\par glory, O Christ, O what fear there will be then, when the furnace is
\par burning and all shrink from Thy inexorable Tribunal! (Matthew 25:31-46)
\par 
\par Refrain: Holy mother Mary, pray for us,
\par 
\par To St. Mary of Egypt: The Mother of the unwaning Light enlightened
\par thee, and freed thee from the darkness of the passions. So now thou
\par art admitted to the grace of the Spirit, enlighten, O Mary, those who
\par faithfully praise Thee.
\par 
\par Refrain: Holy mother Mary, pray for us.
\par 
\par To St. Mary of Egypt: Beholding in thee a new wonder, O mother, divine
\par Zosimas was truly amazed. For he saw an angel in a body and, filled
\par with utter astonishment, he praises Christ for ever.
\par 
\par Refrain: Holy father Andrew, pray for us.
\par 
\par To St. Andrew of Crete: As thou hast boldness with the Lord, O Andrew,
\par venerable credit of Crete, intercede, I implore thee, that by thy
\par prayers I may now find release from the chain of my sins, O teacher of
\par repentance, glory of Saints.
\par 
\par Let us bless the Father, Son and Holy Spirit, the Lord:
\par 
\par To The Trinity: Eternal Father, co-eternal Son, gracious Comforter,
\par Spirit of Truth; Father of the Divine Word, Word of the Eternal Father,
\par living and creative Spirit, Trinity Unity, have mercy on us.
\par 
\par Now and ever, and to the ages of ages. Amen.
\par 
\par Theotokion: As from scarlet silk, O spotless Virgin, within thy womb
\par the spiritual purple was woven, the flesh of Emmanuel. Therefore we
\par honour thee as in truth Mother of God.
\par 
\par Let us praise, bless and worship the Lord, sing and exalt Him
\par throughout all ages.
\par 
\par And again the Eirmos:
\par 
\par Him Whom the heavenly hosts glorify and before Whom Cherubim and
\par Seraphim tremble, let every breath and all creation praise, bless and
\par exalt throughout all ages.
\par 
\par 
\par Then the Magnificat, and More honourable...
\par 
\par 
\par THEN THE TRIODION
\par 
\par Song 9. Tone 8.
\par 
\par Eirmos: Saved by thee, O pure Virgin, we confess thee to be truly
\par Mother of God, and with Bodiless Choirs we magnify thee.
\par 
\par Refrain: Holy Apostles, pray for us.
\par 
\par Troparia:
\par 
\par 1. Having been shown the springs of the water of salvation, O
\par Apostles, bedew my soul that is racked with thirst by sin.
\par 
\par Refrain: Holy Apostles, pray for us.
\par 
\par 2. Swimming in the sea of destruction as I am and already under water,
\par save me like Peter with Thy right hand, O Lord.
\par 
\par Refrain: Holy Apostles, pray for us.
\par 
\par 3. Since you are the salt of the teachings of health, dry the decay of
\par my mind and dispel the darkness of ignorance.
\par 
\par Refrain: Most holy Mother of God, save us.
\par 
\par Theotokion: As the one of whom Joy was born, grant me mourning, O Lady,
\par through which I shall be able to find divine consolation in the coming
\par day.
\par 
\par Another Eirmos: As the Mediatress of Heaven and earth, all generations
\par magnify thee. For there dwelt in thee bodily, O Virgin, the fullness
\par of the Godhead.
\par 
\par Refrain: Holy Apostles, pray for us.
\par 
\par 4. O glorious company of the Apostles, we magnify you with songs; for
\par you are the bright lights of the world that banish delusion and error.
\par 
\par Refrain: Holy Apostles, pray for us.
\par 
\par 5. Ever catching rational fish with the net of your Gospel, you
\par continually bring them as food to Christ, O blessed Apostles.
\par 
\par Refrain: Holy Apostles, pray for us.
\par 
\par 6. Remember us in your prayer to God, O Apostles, we pray, that we who
\par sing your praises with love may be delivered from all temptation.
\par 
\par Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
\par 
\par To The Trinity: Of Thee, the Tri-Personal Unity, I sing; Father and Son
\par with the Spirit, One God of one essence, Trinity one in power and
\par without beginning.
\par 
\par Now and ever, and to the ages of ages. Amen.
\par 
\par Theotokion: All generations bless thee as the Child-bearer and Virgin,
\par since through thee we have been redeemed from the curse, for thou didst
\par bear for us the Lord, our Joy.
\par 
\par 
\par AND THE REST OF THE GREAT CANON
\par 
\par Song 9. Tone 6.
\par 
\par Eirmos: Ineffable is the childbearing of a seedless conception,
\par unsullied the pregnancy of a Virgin Mother, for the birth of God renews
\par natures. So in all generations we magnify thee in orthodox fashion as
\par the Mother and Bride of God. (2)
\par 
\par Refrain: Have mercy on me, O God, have mercy on me.
\par 
\par Troparia:
\par 
\par 1. The mind is wounded, the body is feeble, the spirit is sick, the
\par word has lost its power, life is ebbing, the end is at the doors. What
\par then will you do, wretched soul, when the Judge comes to try your
\par case?
\par 
\par 2. I have reviewed Moses' account of the creation of the world, my
\par soul, and then all canonical Scripture which tells you the story of the
\par righteous and the unrighteous. But you, my soul, have copied the
\par latter and not the former, and have sinned against God.
\par 
\par 3. The Law has grown weak, the Gospel is unpractised, the whole of the
\par Scripture is ignored by you; the Prophets and every word of the Just
\par have lost their power. Your wounds, my soul, have multiplied, and
\par there is no physician to heal you.
\par 
\par 4. I am bringing before you examples from the New Scripture, my soul,
\par to lead you to compunction. So emulate the righteous and avoid
\par following the sinners, and regain Christ's grace by prayers, fasts,
\par purity and reverence.
\par 
\par 5. Christ became man and called to repentance robbers and harlots.
\par Repent, my soul! The door of the Kingdom is already open, and the
\par transformed pharisees, publicans and adulterers are seizing it ahead of
\par you. (Matthew 21:31; 11:12)
\par 
\par 6. Christ became a babe and conversed in the flesh with me, and he
\par voluntarily experienced all that pertains to our nature, apart from
\par sin; and He showed you, my soul, an example and image of His own
\par condescension. (Matthew 1:25)
\par 
\par 7. Christ saved wise men, called shepherds, made crowds of infants
\par martyrs, glorified old men and aged widows, whose deeds and life, my
\par soul, you have not emulated. But woe unto you when you are judged!
\par (Matthew 2:12; Luke 2:9-12; Matthew 2:16; Luke 2:2 5-38)
\par 
\par 8. When the Lord had fasted for forty days in the wilderness, He at
\par last became hungry, showing His human nature. Do not be despondent, my
\par soul, if the enemy attacks you, but let him be beaten off by prayer and
\par fasting. (Matthew 4:1-11; 17:21; Mark 9:29)
\par 
\par 9. Christ was tempted, the devil was tempting Him, showing Him stones
\par to be turned into bread; and he led Him up a mountain to see all the
\par kingdoms of the world in a flash. Dread, my soul, the scene; watch and
\par pray at every hour to God. (Matthew 4:3-9; 26:41)
\par 
\par 10. The desert-loving dove, the lamp of Christ, the Voice crying in
\par the wilderness sounded, preaching repentance; while Herod sinned with
\par Herodias. See, my soul, that you are not caught in the toils of sin,
\par but embrace repentance. (Mark 1:3; Matthew 14: 3)
\par 
\par 11. The Forerunner of grace dwelt in the desert and all Judea and
\par Samaria ran to hear him; and they confessed their sins, and eagerly
\par received baptism. But you, my soul, have not imitated them. (Matthew
\par 3:5-6)
\par 
\par 12. Marriage is honourable and the bed undefiled, for Christ earlier
\par blessed both, eating in His flesh at the marriage in Cana and changing
\par water into wine, and showing His first miracle so that you, my soul,
\par might be changed. (Hebrews 13:4; John 2:1-11)
\par 
\par 13. Christ braced the paralytic and he carried his bed; He raised up
\par the dead young man, the son of the widow, and the Centurion's servant;
\par and by revealing Himself to the Samaritan woman, He traced in advance
\par for you, my soul, how to worship in spirit. (Matthew 9: 2-7; Luke
\par 7:14; Matthew 8:6-13; John 4:26; Joshua 4:24)
\par 
\par 14. The Lord healed the woman with hemorrhage by the touch of His hem,
\par cleansed lepers, gave sight to the blind, and cured cripples; the deaf
\par and the dumb and the woman bent earthward he healed with His word, that
\par you, wretched soul, might be saved. (Mat Matthew 9:20-22; 10:8; 11:5;
\par Luke 13:11-13)
\par 
\par 15. Christ the Word healed diseases, preached the Gospel to the poor,
\par cured cripples, ate with publicans, conversed with sinners, and He
\par brought back the departed soul of Jairus' daughter by the touch of His
\par hand. (Matthew 9:11; Mark 5:41-42)
\par 
\par 16. The publican was saved, the harlot was made chaste, but the
\par pharisee through boasting was condemned. For the first said, "Be
\par merciful," the second, "Have mercy on me," but the last boasted and
\par cried, "O God, I thank Thee," and then some foolish word s. (Luke
\par 7:36-50; 18:9-14)
\par 
\par 17. Zacchaeus was a publican, but yet was healed, and Simon the
\par Pharisee was disappointed, but the harlot received the release of full
\par forgiveness from Him Who has power to forgive sins. Obtain His
\par forgiveness yourself, my soul. (Luke 19:1-10; 7:36-50)
\par 
\par 18. You, my wretched soul, have not emulated the harlot who took the
\par alabaster jar of perfumed oil and anointed with tears and wiped with
\par her hair the feet of the Saviour, Who tore up for her the handwriting
\par of her old accusation. (Luke 7:37-38; Colossians 2:14)
\par 
\par 19. You know how the towns to which Christ offered the Gospel were
\par cursed. Fear this example, my soul, do not be like them; for the Lord
\par compared them to the Sodomites and condemned them to hell. (Luke
\par 10:13-15)
\par 
\par 20. Do not let despair make you worse than the Canaanite woman, my
\par soul, for you have heard of her faith through which her daughter was
\par healed by the Word of God. Call to Christ like her from the depth of
\par your heart, "Son of David, save me." (Matthew 15:22)
\par 
\par 21. Have compassion and save me, have mercy on me, O Son of David, Who
\par didst heal with a word the demoniac. And let Thy voice of tender
\par compassion speak to me as to the robber, "Truly I tell you, you will be
\par with Me in Paradise when I rise in My glory." (Luke 9:38-42; 23:43)
\par 
\par 22. A robber accused Thee, and a robber confessed Thee to be God, for
\par both were hanging on a cross with Thee. But open even to me, O most
\par compassionate Saviour, the door of Thy glorious Kingdom as to Thy
\par faithful robber who acknowledged Thee to be God. (Luke 23:32-42)
\par 
\par 23. Creation was in anguish, seeing Thee crucified; mountains and
\par rocks were split with fear, the earth quaked, hell was emptied, and the
\par light grew dark in the daytime, beholding Thee, Jesus, nailed to the
\par Cross in Thy flesh. (Matthew 27:51-53; Luke 23:44-45)
\par 
\par 24. Do not require of me fruits worthy of repentance, for my strength
\par is spent in me. Grant me ever a contrite heart and spiritual poverty,
\par that I may offer these gifts to Thee as an acceptable sacrifice, O only
\par Saviour. (Matthew 3:8; 5:3; Psalm 50:17)
\par 
\par 25. O my Judge and my Light Who alone knowest me and art coming again
\par with Thine Angels to judge the whole world, regard me then with Thy
\par merciful Eye and spare me, O Jesus. And have compassion on me who have
\par sinned more than all mankind. (Matthew 25:31-32)
\par 
\par Refrain: Holy mother Mary, pray for us.
\par 
\par To St. Mary of Egypt: Thou didst astonish all by thy strange life, both
\par the Orders of Angels and the councils of men, by living immaterially
\par and surpassing nature. Then treading firmly the waves like an
\par immaterial being, O Mary, thou didst cross the Jordan an.
\par 
\par Refrain: Holy mother Mary, pray for us.
\par 
\par To St. Mary of Egypt: Intercede with the Creator on behalf of those who
\par praise thee, holy mother, that we may be delivered from the sufferings
\par and afflictions which beset us on all sides, that being delivered from
\par our temptations, we may unceasingly magnify the Lord Who glorified
\par thee.
\par 
\par Refrain: Holy father Andrew, pray for us.
\par 
\par To St. Andrew of Crete: Venerable Andrew, thrice-blessed father,
\par shepherd of Crete, cease not to pray to God for those who sing of thee,
\par that He may deliver from anger, oppression, corruption and our
\par countless sins, all of us who faithfully honour thy memory .
\par 
\par Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
\par 
\par To The Trinity: Trinity of one essence, Tri-Personal Unity, we sing Thy
\par praise, glorifying the Father, magnifying the Son, and adoring the
\par Spirit, Who art truly one God by nature, Life and Lives, Kingdom
\par unending.
\par 
\par Now and ever, and to the ages of ages. Amen.
\par 
\par Theotokion: Protect thy city, spotless Mother of God, for in thee it
\par faithfully reigns, and in thee is made strong, and through thee it
\par conquers and routs every trial and temptation, and spoils its foes and
\par rules its subjects.
\par 
\par And again the Eirmos:
\par 
\par Ineffable is the childbearing of a seedless conception, unsullied the
\par pregnancy of a Virgin Mother, for the birth of God renews natures. So
\par in all generations we magnify thee in orthodox fashion as Mother and
\par Bride of God.
\par 
\par 
\par Little Litany: Again and again in peace...
\par 
\par Exclamation: For all the Powers of Heaven praise Thee, and to Thee we
\par send up the glory, to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy
\par Spirit, now and ever, and to the ages of ages.
\par 
\par Choir: Amen.
\par 
\par Then the Photogogikon or Lucern of the Trinity, tone 8:
\par 
\par O Thou Who art the Light, enlighten... (For Thursday)
\par 
\par }\pard \s15\widctlpar\adjustright {The Praises and Doxology are read, not sung.
\par }}