{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f27\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020404030301010803}Garamond;}{\f287\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f288\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f290\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f291\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f292\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f293\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f294\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f295\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f296\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}{\f298\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f299\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}{\f300\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial (Hebrew);}
{\f301\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial (Arabic);}{\f302\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}{\f503\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Garamond CE;}{\f507\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Garamond Tur;}{\f510\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Garamond Baltic;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f27\fs28\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext15 svc sess hymn;}{\s16\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 SDOA;}{\s17\qj \li576\ri576\sb100\sa100\sl360\slmult1
\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin576\lin576\itap0 \f1\fs36\cf15\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext17 SPS;}{\s18\qj \li576\ri576\sb100\sa100\sl360\slmult1\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin576\lin576\itap0 
\i\f1\fs36\cf16\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon17 \snext18 SDS;}{\s19\qj \li576\ri576\sb100\sa100\sl360\slmult1\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin576\lin576\itap0 
\b\i\f1\fs28\cf16\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon18 \snext19 SDSL;}{\*\cs20 \additive \b\f0\fs36 \sbasedon10 SPA;}{\*\cs21 \additive \b\i\f0\fs28 \sbasedon20 SPAL;}{\s22\qj \li576\ri576\sb100\sa100\sl360\slmult1
\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin576\lin576\itap0 \b\i\f1\fs28\cf15\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon17 \snext17 SPSL;}{\*\cs23 \additive \f1\fs32 \sbasedon10 SR;}{\*\cs24 \additive \i\f1\fs24 \sbasedon23 SRL;}{\*\cs25 
\additive \i\f1\cf6 \sbasedon10 SRU;}{\s26\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\noproof\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 SRUL;}{\*\cs27 \additive \f1\fs36\cf15 \sbasedon10 SC;}{\*\cs28 
\additive \b\i\f1\fs24\cf15 \sbasedon10 SCL;}{\*\cs29 \additive \i\f1\fs36\ul\cf15 \sbasedon27 SCI;}{\s30\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext30 header;}{\s31\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext31 footer;}}{\info{\title A SERVICE FOR THE INCREASE OF LOVE AND THE UPROOTING OF HATRED AND ALL ANIMOSITY}{\author Fr Seraphim Holland}{\operator Fr Seraphim Holland}{\creatim\yr2001\mo9\dy16\hr6\min7}{\revtim\yr2001\mo9\dy16\hr6\min36}
{\printim\yr2001\mo9\dy16\hr6\min23}{\version3}{\edmins29}{\nofpages8}{\nofwords1369}{\nofchars7804}{\*\company St Nicholas Russian Orthodox Church}{\nofcharsws9583}{\vern8247}}\margl1440\margr1440\margt720\margb720 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1440\dgvorigin720\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \psz1\linex0\endnhere\titlepg\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\footer \pard\plain 
\s31\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {A SERVICE FOR THE INCREASE OF LOVE
\par AND THE UPROOTING OF HATRED AND ALL ANIMOSITY.\tab - }{\field{\*\fldinst { PAGE }}{\fldrslt {\lang1024\langfe1024\noproof 7}}}{ -
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s26\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\noproof\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {A SERVICE FOR THE INCREASE OF LOVE AND THE UPROOTING OF HATRED AND ALL ANIMOSITY.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par }\pard\plain \s26\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\noproof\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par AT THE PROSKOMEDIA:
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par }\pard\plain \s17\qj \li576\ri576\sb100\sa100\sl360\slmult1\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin576\lin576\itap0 \f1\fs36\cf15\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
O Lord Jesus Christ, our God, Who gavest a new commandment to Thy disciples, that they should love one another: Accept this offering for the remission 
of all the sins of Thy right-believing servants. And by Thy Holy Spirit renew love for Thy goodness and for neighbor, which has waxed cold in us. Do Thou establish this with strength in our hearts, that, fulfilling Thy commandments, we seek not on earth o
ur own ends, but that which is to Thy glory, the building up of our neighbor, and for salvation.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par }\pard\plain \s26\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\noproof\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\sect }\sectd \psz1\linex0\endnhere\titlepg\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\footerf \pard\plain 
\s31\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {A SERVICE FOR THE INCREASE OF LOVE
\par AND THE UPROOTING OF HATRED AND ALL ANIMOSITY.\tab - }{\field{\*\fldinst { PAGE }}{\fldrslt {\lang1024\langfe1024\noproof 4}}}{ -
\par }}\pard\plain \s26\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\noproof\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {AT THE BEGINNING OF THE DIVINE LITURGY:
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par }{\cs25\i\f1\cf6 At the Great Litany, after the petition "For travelers by land, by sea, and by air... ", the following are added:
\par }{
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\keep\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\cs20\b\fs36 That we may be cleansed of our sins and transgressions which have dried up in us love for Him
 and for our neighbor, and that it may be established by the power, action and grace of His Most-holy Spirit, and rooted in all our hearts, earnestly let us pray to the Lord.
\par 
\par That there may be planted and rooted in us by the grace of His Most Holy Spirit the new commandment of His New Testament: that we love one another, and not merely satisfy ourselves, but rather always strive for His glory and the building-up of o
ur neighbor, let us pray to the Lord.
\par 
\par That there may be uprooted in us hatred, envy and jealousy and all other passions which destroy brotherly love, and that there may be planted unfeigned love, fervently let us pray to the Lord.
\par 
\par That there may be kindled in us the fervent love of God and our neighbor by the grace of His Most-holy Spirit, and thus burn out to the very roots the passions of all our souls and bodies, let us pray to the Lord.
\par 
\par That there may be uprooted in us the passions of self-love, and rooted instead the virtue of brotherly love by the power of His Most-holy Spirit, with broken and contrite hearts let us pray to the Lord.
\par 
\par That we may not love the world and that which is in the world, but rather have true love for God and His glory, and t
hat we may love That which is profitable and for the salvation of our neighbor, so that we may ever gaze on the good things prepared in heaven, and that we may seek these with all our souls, let us pray to the Lord.
\par 
\par That truly we may love, not just our friends and brothers, but also our enemies, and do that which is good to those who hate us, with the power, action and grace of His Most-holy Spirit moving us, let us pray to the Lord.
\par 
\par That we may examine ourselves, condemn ourselves, and ever looking upon 
our own transgressions, humble ourselves before God and before everyone, never judging our brother, but loving him as our very self, by the power, action and grace of His Most-holy Spirit, let us pray to the Lord.
\par 
\par That we may imitate the burning love of t
he Christians in ancient times for God and neighbor, and that we may be their heirs and successors, not only in image, but in true action, by the power , action and grace of the Most-holy Spirit, let us pray to the Lord.
\par 
\par That We may keep us immovable in t
he True Faith, in peace and the unity of burning love, increasing in all virtues, and preserve us unharmed from all soul-corrupting passions, by the power, action and grace of the Most-holy Spirit, let us pray to the Lord.}{
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\par }\pard\plain \s26\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\noproof\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\sect }\sectd \psz1\linex0\endnhere\titlepg\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl \pard\plain 
\s26\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\noproof\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {AFTER THE ENTRANCE:
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par }{\cs25\i\f1\cf6 These are Sung to established order together with the appointed Troparia and Kontakia}{.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\noproof\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Troparion, TONE 4:
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\cs27\f1\fs36\cf15 
Thou didst bind Thine Apostles in the bonds of love, O Christ, and hast firmly bound us, Thy faithful servants, to Thyself, that we may fulfill Thy commandmen
ts and have unfeigned love for one another, through the prayers of the Theotokos, O Only Lover of Mankind.}{
\par }\pard\plain \s26\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\noproof\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par Kontakion, TONE 5.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\cs27\f1\fs36\cf15 Kindle our hearts with the flames of love for Thee, O Christ God, That being inflamed by this, in heart, mind and soul, we may l
ove Thee with all our strength, and our neighbor as ourselves, and that keeping Thy commandments, we may glorify Thee the Giver of all good.}{
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\par }\pard\plain \s26\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\noproof\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Prokeimenon, TONE 7:
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par }{\cs23\f1\fs32 I will love Thee, O Lord, my Strength; the Lord is my Foundation. (17:2-3)
\par }{
\par }{\cs25\i\f1\cf6 Vs.}{ }{\cs23\f1\fs32 My God is my Helper, and I will hope in Him. (17:3)
\par }{
\par }\pard\plain \s26\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\noproof\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {A Reading from the First Catholic Epistle of John
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\cs25\i\f1\cf6 (Pericopes 72 & 73-1 John 3: 10-24)}{
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\cs23\f1\fs32 Beloved whosoever does not righteousness is not of God, neither is he that loves not his brother. For this is the message that 
you heard from the beginning: that we should love one another. Be not as Cain, who was of the evil one and slew his brother. And why did he slay him? Because his own works were evil, and his brother's righteous. Marvel not, my brethren, if the world hates
 
you. We know that we have passed from death unto life, because we love the brethren. He that loves not his brother abides in death. Whosoever hates his brother is a murderer, and you know that no murderer has eternal life abiding in him. Hereby we perceiv
e the love of God: because He laid down His life for us. And we ought to lay down our lives for the brethren. H
e, therefore, that has this world's goods and sees his brother in need, and shuts up the compassion of his heart from him, how does the love of Go
d dwell in him? My little children, let us not love in word, neither in tongue, but in deed and in truth. And hereby we know that we are of the truth, and shall assure our hearts before Him
. For if our heart condemns us, God is greater than our heart and k
nows all things. Beloved, if our heart condemns us not, then we have confidence toward God. And whatsoever we ask we receive of Him, because we keep His commandment and do those things that are pleasing in His sight. And this is His commandment: that we s
hould believe in the Name of His Son Jesus Christ and love one another, as Re gave us commandment. And he that keeps His commandments dwells in Him, and Re in him. And hereby we know that He abides in us: by the Spirit Whom He has given us.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\par }\pard\plain \s26\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\noproof\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Alleluia, TONE 8:
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par }{\cs23\f1\fs32 O love the Lord, all you His saints. (30: 24)
\par }{
\par }{\cs25\i\f1\cf6 Vs.}{ }{\cs23\f1\fs32 For the Lord requires truth; and unto them that act proudly, Re will repay abundantly. (30: 24)
\par }{
\par }\pard\plain \s26\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\noproof\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {A Reading from the Holy Gospel According to Saint John
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par }{\cs25\i\f1\cf6 (Pericope 46-John 13:31-35)}{
\par 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\cs23\f1\fs32 The Lord said unto His Disciples, "Now is the Son of Man glorified, and God is glorified in Him
. If God be glorified in Him, God shall also glorify Him in Himself, and shall immediately glorify Him. Little children, yet a little while I am with you. You shall seek Me; and as
 I said unto the Jews, 'Wither I go you cannot come,' so now say I unto you. A new commandment I give unto you: that you love one another; as I have loved you, that you also love one another. By this shall all men know that you are My disciples, if you ha
ve love one for another."
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\par }\pard\plain \s26\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\noproof\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {AFTER THE GOSPEL:
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par }{\cs25\i\f1\cf6 At the Augmented Litany the following petitions are added:}{
\par 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\keep\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\cs20\b\fs36 O Lord our God, in Thy mercy, as Thou art good, look down upon the ground of our heart in which love has dried up, cruelly overgrown with the thorns of
 hatred, self-love, and innumerable transgressions. And as Thou art the Source of all good, fervently we entreat Thee: having released a drop of the grace of Thy Most-holy Spirit, richly bedew it that it may bear fruit, and make it increase, out of burnin
g
 love for Thee, the root of all virtues - the fear of Thee - as also vigilant solicitude for the salvation of our neighbor, and the uprooting of all passions, evils of various forms, and hypocrisy, and as the Lover of Mankind quickly hearken and have merc
y.
\par 
\par O Master Who gavest a new commandment to Thy disciples that they should love one another, renew this by the grace of Thy Most-holy Spirit acting in our souls and hearts, that we will never become selfish, but always endeavor to please Thee and strive fo
r the salvation of our neighbor and pay close attention to that which is beneficial, we pray Thee, the merciful Giver of all that is good, hearken and mercifully have mercy.
\par 
\par Thou gavest the first and greatest commandment, that we should love Thee, our God
 and Creator, with all our soul, with all our mind, and with all our strength, and a second, like it, that we should love our neighbor as ourselves, and that on both of these hangs the Law and the Prophets. Having taught us to fulfill these commandments i
n
 deed, convince all of us by the grace of Thy Most-holy Spirit, that pleasing Thee, our Savior, through the salvation of our neighbor, we may receive Thy promised blessings, for, fervently falling down before Thee, our Master and Savior, we beseech Thee, 
quickly hearken and mercifully have mercy.
\par 
\par That we may be perfected in Thy love, O our God, constrain us, by the grace of Thy Spirit, O Master, to have love for our neighbor. For, to suppose that we sincerely have love for Thee, but hate our brother is a l
ie and to walk in darkness. Therefore, O Merciful One, that there be kindled in our souls and hearts love for Thee and our brother, we pray Thee, as Thou art merciful, quickly hearken, and as Thou art compassionate, have mercy.
\par 
\par O All-compassionate Lord,
 by the Grace of Thy Most-holy Spirit, establish in us Thy love, that we may truly love, not only our brothers and friends, but, according to Thy divine command, our enemies, as well, and do good to those who hate us, striving sincerely for their salvatio
n, we pray Thee, O Wellspring of Good and Abyss of Love for Mankind, quickly hearken, and, as Thou art tenderhearted, have mercy.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\par }\pard\plain \s26\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\noproof\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\sect }\sectd \psz1\linex0\endnhere\titlepg\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl \pard\plain 
\s26\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\noproof\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {COMMUNION HYMN:
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par }{\cs27\f1\fs36\cf15 The Lord said, A new commandment I give you, that you love one another as I have loved you.
\par 
\par }{\cs25\i\f1\cf6 The end
\par }}