{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f16\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f17\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}
{\f19\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f20\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f21\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\adjustright \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\cs15 \additive \sbasedon10 footnote reference;}}{\info{\title THE SIX PSALMS}
{\author Fr Seraphim Holland}{\operator tholland}{\creatim\yr2000\mo6\dy5\hr15\min13}{\revtim\yr2000\mo6\dy5\hr15\min13}{\version2}{\edmins1}{\nofpages6}{\nofwords1538}{\nofchars8771}{\*\company St Nicholas Russian Orthodox Church}{\nofcharsws0}
{\vern113}}\margl1440\margr1440 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\aftnnar\notabind\wraptrsp\transmf\truncatefontheight\subfontbysize\sprsbsp\wpjst\lytprtmet\hyphcaps0\viewkind1\viewscale100 \fet0\sectd \linex0\headery1440\footery1440\sectdefaultcl {\footer 
\pard\plain \sl-240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \qc\nowidctlpar\pvpara\posx0\posy0\absw9361\nowrap\adjustright {\field{\*\fldinst {PAGE }}{\fldrslt {\lang1024 1}}}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qc\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\b\fs30 THE SIX PSALMS}{\fs30 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs30 
\par 
\par }{\i\fs30 There should be no moving about and no sitting during the reading of the Six Psalms.}{\fs30  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\i\fs30 All candles in the stands should be extinguished (and relit at the end of the reading). \line The Reader reads in the middle of the church, using a candle.}{ 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs30 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\b\fs30 G}{\fs30 lory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will among men. }{\i\fs30 Thrice}{\fs30 . }{\i\fs30 (With the sign of the Cross and a bow from the waist each time.)}{\fs30  
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs30 
\par }\pard \qj\fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\b\fs30 O}{\fs30  Lord, Thou shalt open my lips, and my mouth shall declare Thy praise. }{\i\fs30 Twice}{\fs30 . 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs30 
\par }\pard \qj\fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\b\fs45 O}{\fs30  Lord, why are they multiplied that afflict me? Many rise up against me. Many say unto my soul: There is no salvation for him in hi
s God. But Thou, O Lord, art my helper, my glory, and the lifter up of my head. I cried unto the Lord with my voice, and He heard me out of His holy mountain. I laid me down and slept; I awoke, for the Lord will help me. I will not be afraid of ten thousa
n
ds of people that set themselves against me round about. Arise, O Lord, save me, O my God, for Thou hast smitten all who without cause are mine enemies; the teeth of sinners hast Thou broken. Salvation is of the Lord, and Thy blessing is upon Thy people. 
  
\par }{\b\fs30 I}{\fs30  laid me down and slept; I awoke, for the Lord will help me.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs30  
\par \sect }\sectd \sbknone\linex0\headery1440\footery1440\sectdefaultcl \pard\plain \qj\fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\b\fs45 O}{\fs30 
 Lord, rebuke me not in Thine anger, nor chasten me in Thy wrath. For Thine arrows are fastened in me, and Thou hast laid Thy hand heavily upon me. There is no healing in my f
lesh in the face of Thy wrath; and there is no peace in my bones in the face of my sins. For mine iniquities are risen higher than my head; as a heavy burden have they pressed heavily upon me. My bruises are become noisome and corrupt in the face of my fo
l
ly. I have been wretched and utterly bowed down until the end; all the day long I went with downcast face. For my loins are filled with mockings, and there is no healing in my flesh. I am afflicted and humbled exceedingly, I have roared from the groaning 
o
f my heart. 0 Lord, before Thee is all my desire, and my groaning is not hid from Thee. My heart is troubled, my strength hath failed me; and the light of mine eyes, even this is not with me. My friends and my neighbours drew nigh over against me and stoo
d
, and my nearest of kin stood afar off. And they that sought after my soul used violence; and they that sought evils for me spake vain things, and craftinesses all the day long did they meditate. But as for me, like a deaf man I heard them not, and was as
 
a speechless man that openeth not his mouth. And I became as a man that heareth not, and that hath in his mouth no reproofs. For in Thee have I hoped, O Lord; Thou wilt hearken unto me, O Lord my God. For I said: Let never mine enemies rejoice over me; ye
a
, when my feet were shaken, those men spake boastful words against me. For I am ready for scourges, and my sorrow is continually before me. For I will declare mine iniquity, and I will take heed concerning my sin. But mine enemies live and are made strong
er than I, and they that hated me unjustly are multiplied. They that render me evil for good slandered me, because I pursued goodness. Forsake me not, O Lord my God, depart not from me. Be attentive unto my help, O Lord of my salvation.   
\par }{\b\fs30 F}{\fs30 orsake me not, O Lord my God, depart not from me. Be attentive unto my help, O Lord of my salvation. 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs30 
\par }\pard \qj\fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\b\fs45 O}{\fs30  God, my God, unto Thee I  rise early at dawn. My soul  hath thirsted for Thee; how often  hath my flesh longed after Thee  in a land barren and untrod
den and unwatered. So in the sanctuary have I appeared before Thee to see Thy power and Thy glory. For Thy mercy is better than lives; my lips shall praise Thee. So shall I bless Thee in my life, and in Thy name will I lift up my hands. As with marrow and
 
fatness let my soul be filled, and with lips of rejoicing shall my mouth praise Thee. If I remembered Thee on my bed, at the dawn I meditated on Thee. For Thou art become my helper; in the shelter of Thy wings will I rejoice. My soul hath cleaved after Th
e
e, Thy right hand hath been quick to help me. But as for these, in vain have they sought after my soul; they shall go into the nethermost parts of the earth, they shall be surrendered unto the edge of the sword; portions for foxes shall they be. But the k
ing shall be glad in God, everyone shall be praised that sweareth by Him; for the mouth of them is stopped that speak unjust things.
\par }{\b\fs30 A}{\fs30 t the dawn I meditated on Thee. For Thou art become my helper; in the shelter of Thy wings will I rejoice.
\par \sect }\sectd \sbknone\linex0\headery1440\footery1440\sectdefaultcl \pard\plain \qj\fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\b\fs30 M}{\fs30 y soul hath cleaved after Thee, Thy right hand hath been quick to help me. 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs30  
\par }\pard \qj\fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\b\fs30 G}{\fs30 lory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit, both now and ever, and unto the ages of ages. Amen. 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs30 
\par }\pard \qj\fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\b\fs30 A}{\fs30 lleluia, alleluia, alleluia. Glory to Thee, O God. }{\i\fs30 Thrice}{\fs30 . }{\i\fs30 (Without bows, with the sign of the Cross only.)}{\fs30 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs30 
\par }\pard \qj\fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\b\fs30 L}{\fs30 ord. have mercy. }{\i\fs30 Thrice.}{\fs30 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs30 
\par }\pard \qj\fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\b\fs30 G}{\fs30 lory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit, both now and ever, and unto the ages of ages. Amen. 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs30 
\par \sect }\sectd \sbknone\linex0\headery1440\footery1440\sectdefaultcl \pard\plain \qj\fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\b\fs45 O}{\fs30  Lord God of my salvation, by day have I cried and 
by night before Thee. Let my prayer come before Thee, bow down Thine ear unto my supplication. For filled with evils is my soul, and my life unto hades hath drawn nigh. I am counted with them that go down into the pit; I am become as a man without help, f
r
ee among the dead. Like the bodies of the slain that sleep in the grave, whom Thou rememberest no more, and they are cut off from Thy hand. They laid me in the lowest pit, in darkness and in the shadow of death. Against me is Thine anger made strong, and 
a
ll Thy billows hast Thou brought upon me. Thou hast removed my friends afar from me; they have made me an abomination unto themselves. I have been delivered up, and have not come forth; mine eyes are grown weak from poverty. I have cried unto Thee, O Lord
,
 the whole day long; I have stretched out my hands unto Thee. Nay, for the dead wilt Thou work wonders? Or shall physicians raise them up that they may give thanks unto Thee? Nay, shall any in the grave tell of Thy mercy, and of Thy truth in Thy destructi
o
n? Nay, shall Thy wonders be known in that darkness, and Thy righteousness in that land that is forgotten? But as for me, unto Thee, O Lord, have I cried; and in the morning shall my prayer come before Thee. Wherefore, O Lord, dost Thou cast off my soul a
n
d turnest Thy face away from me? A poor man am I, and in troubles from my youth; yea, having been exalted, I was humbled and brought to distress. Thy furies have passed upon me, and Thy terrors have sorely troubled me. They came round about me like water,
 all the day long they compassed me about together. Thou hast removed afar from me friend and neighbour, and mine acquaintances because of my misery.
\par }{\b\fs30 O}{\fs30  Lord God of my salvation, by day have I cried and by night before Thee.
\par }{\b\fs30 L}{\fs30 et my prayer come before Thee, bow down Thine ear unto my supplication.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs30 
\par }\pard \qj\fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\b\fs45 B}{\fs30 
less the Lord, O my soul, and all that is within me bless His holy name. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all that He hath done for thee, Who is gracious unto all thine iniquities, Who healeth all thine in
firmities, Who redeemeth thy life from corruption, Who crowneth thee with mercy and compassion, Who fulfilleth thy desire with good things; thy youth shall be renewed as the eagle's. The Lord performeth deeds of mercy, and executeth judgment for all them 
t
hat are wronged. He hath made His ways known unto Moses, unto the sons of Israel the things that He hath willed. Compassionate and merciful is the Lord, longsuffering and plenteous in mercy; not unto the end will He be angered, neither unto eternity will 
H
e be wroth. Not according to our iniquities hath He dealt with us, neither according to our sins hath He rewarded us. For according to the height of heaven from the earth, the Lord hath made His mercy to prevail over them that fear Him. As far as the east
 
is from the west, so far hath He removed our iniquities from us. Like as a father hath compassion upon his sons, so hath the Lord had compassion upon them that fear Him; for He knoweth whereof we are made, He hath remembered that we are dust. As for man, 
h
is days are as the grass; as a flower of the field, so shall he blossom forth. For when the wind is passed over it, then it shall be gone, and no longer will it know the place thereof. But the mercy of the Lord is from eternity, even unto eternity, upon t
h
em that fear Him. And His righteousness is upon sons of sons, upon them that keep His testament and remember His commandments to do them. The Lord in heaven hath prepared His throne, and His kingdom ruleth over all. Bless the Lord, all ye His angels, migh
ty in strength, that perform His word, to hear the voice of His words. Bless the Lord, all ye His hosts, His ministers that do His will. Bless the Lord, all ye His works, in every place of His dominion. Bless the Lord, O my soul.
\par }{\b\fs30 I}{\fs30 n every place of His dominion, bless the Lord, O my soul.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs30 
\par \sect }\sectd \sbknone\linex0\headery1440\footery1440\sectdefaultcl \pard\plain \qj\fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\b\fs45 O}{\fs30 
 Lord, hear my prayer, give  ear unto my supplication in  Thy truth; hearken unto me in  Thy righteousness. And enter not  into judgment with Thy servant,  for in Thy sight shall no man  living be justified.
 For the enemy  hath persecuted my soul; he hath  humbled my life down to the  earth. He hath sat me in darkness  as those that have been long  dead, and my spirit within me is  become despondent; within me  my heart is troubled. I remembered days of old,
 
I meditated on  all Thy works, I pondered on the  creations of Thy hands. I  stretched forth my hands unto  Thee; my soul thirsteth after thee  like a waterless land. Quickly hear  me, O Lord; my spirit hath  fainted away. Turn not Thy face away from me, 
l
est I be like unto them that go down into the pit. Cause me to hear Thy mercy in the morning; for in Thee have I put my hope. cause me to know, O Lord, the way wherein I should walk; for unto Thee have I lifted up my soul. Rescue me from mine enemies, O L
o
rd; unto Thee have I fled for refuge. Teach me to do Thy will, for Thou art my God. Thy good Spirit shall lead me in the land of uprightness; for Thy name's sake, O Lord, shalt Thou quicken me. In Thy righteousness shalt Thou bring my soul out of afflicti
on, and in Thy mercy shalt Thou utterly destroy mine enemies. And Thou shalt cut off all them that afflict my soul, for I am Thy servant. }{\b\fs30 
\par H}{\fs30 earken unto me, O Lord, in Thy righteousness, and enter not into judgment with Thy servant.
\par }{\b\fs30 H}{\fs30 earken unto me, O Lord, in Thy righteousness, and enter not into judgment with Thy servant.   
\par }{\b\fs30 T}{\fs30 hy good Spirit shall lead me in the land of uprightness. 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs30   
\par }\pard \qj\fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\b\fs30 G}{\fs30 lory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit, both now and ever and unto the ages of ages. Amen. 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs30 
\par }\pard \qj\fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\b\fs30 A}{\fs30 lleluia, alleluia, alleluia. Glory to Thee, O God. }{\i\fs30 Thrice}{\fs30 . }{\i\fs30 (With the sign of the Cross and Bows from the waist.)}{
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \qc\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }}