{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial{\*\falt  Helvetica};}
{\f12\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}New York{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f27\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020404030301010803}Garamond;}{\f299\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}
{\f300\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f302\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f303\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f304\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}
{\f305\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f306\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f307\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE{\*\falt  Helvetica};}{\f308\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr{\*\falt  Helvetica};}
{\f310\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek{\*\falt  Helvetica};}{\f311\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur{\*\falt  Helvetica};}{\f312\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial (Hebrew){\*\falt  Helvetica};}
{\f313\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial (Arabic){\*\falt  Helvetica};}{\f314\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic{\*\falt  Helvetica};}{\f515\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Garamond CE;}{\f519\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Garamond Tur;}
{\f522\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Garamond Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f27\fs28\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 svc sess hymn;}{\s16\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 
SDOA;}{\s17\qj \li576\ri576\sb100\sa100\sl360\slmult1\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin576\lin576\itap0 \f1\fs36\cf15\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext17 SPS;}{\s18\qj \li576\ri576\sb100\sa100\sl360\slmult1
\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin576\lin576\itap0 \i\f1\fs36\cf16\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon17 \snext18 SDS;}{\s19\qj \li576\ri576\sb100\sa100\sl360\slmult1\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin576\lin576\itap0 
\b\i\f1\fs28\cf16\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon18 \snext19 SDSL;}{\*\cs20 \additive \b\f0\fs36 \sbasedon10 SPA;}{\*\cs21 \additive \b\i\f0\fs28 \sbasedon20 SPAL;}{\s22\qj \li576\ri576\sb100\sa100\sl360\slmult1
\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin576\lin576\itap0 \b\i\f1\fs28\cf15\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon17 \snext17 SPSL;}{\*\cs23 \additive \f1\fs32 \sbasedon10 SR;}{\*\cs24 \additive \i\f1\fs24 \sbasedon23 SRL;}{\*\cs25 
\additive \i\f1\cf6 \sbasedon10 SRU;}{\s26\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\noproof\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 SRUL;}{\*\cs27 \additive \f1\fs36\cf15 \sbasedon10 SC;}{\*\cs28 
\additive \b\i\f1\fs24\cf15 \sbasedon10 SCL;}{\s29\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f12\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext29 footer;}{
\s30\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext30 header;}}{\info{\title At Liturgy}{\author Fr Seraphim Holland}
{\operator Fr Seraphim Holland}{\creatim\yr2001\mo9\dy13\min5}{\revtim\yr2001\mo9\dy13\min20}{\version1}{\edmins15}{\nofpages18}{\nofwords6187}{\nofchars27844}{\*\company St Nicholas Russian Orthodox Church}{\nofcharsws43312}{\vern8247}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1800\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\footer \pard\plain \s29\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar
\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f12\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Rite Chanted in Time of Attack by Aliens \tab - }{\field{\*\fldinst { PAGE }}{\fldrslt {\lang1024\langfe1024\noproof 3}
}}{\b\fs32  -}{
\par }}{\headerf \pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs32 Rite Chanted in Time of Attack by Aliens
\par }\pard\plain \s30\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s26\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\noproof\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {At Liturgy
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\cs25\i\f1\cf6 Prokimenon, in Tone IV\emdash 
\par 
\par }{\i \tab }{Let God arise, and let His enemies be scattered, and let them that hate Him flee from before His face.
\par 
\par \tab }{\cs25\f1\cf6 Stichos:}{\i   }{As smoke vanisheth, so let them vanish; as wax melteth before the fire, so let sinners perish at the presence of God.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\noproof\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Epistle to the Ephesians, \'a7220  [Eph. 2: 4-10]}{\scaps 
\par }\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\scaps 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\tab 
Brethren, God, who is rich in mercy, for His great love wherewith He loved us, even when we were dead in sins, hath quickened us together with Christ, (by grace ye are saved); and hath raised us
 up together, and made us sit together in heavenly places in Christ Jesus: that in the ages to come He might show the exceeding riches of His grace in His kindness toward us through Christ Jesus.  For by grace are ye saved through faith; and that not of y
ourselves: it is the gift of God: not of works, lest any man should boast.  For we are His workmanship, created in Christ Jesus unto good works, which God hath before ordained that we should walk in them.
\par }{\i 
\par }{\cs25\i\f1\cf6 Alleluia, in Tone IV\emdash 
\par }{\i 
\par }{\cs25\i\f1\cf6 Stichos:}{\i   }{The Lord Who bringeth wars to nought, Lord is His name.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\noproof\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par Gospel according to Luke, \'a770  [Lk. 13: 1-9]}{\scaps 
\par }\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\scaps 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\scaps \tab }{At that time, there were present some who told Jesus of the Galil\'e6
ans, whose blood Pilate had mingled with their sacrifices.  And Jesus answering said unto them: \'93Suppose ye that these Galil\'e6ans were sinners above all the Galil\'e6
ans, because they suffered such things?  I tell you, Nay: but, except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish.  Or those eighteen, upon whom the tower in Siloam fell, and slew them, think ye that the
y were sinners above all men that dwelt in Jerusalem?  I tell you, Nay: but, except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish.\'94  He spake also this parable: \'93
A certain man had a fig tree planted in his vineyard; and he came and sought fruit thereon, and found none.  Then said he unto the dresser of his vineyard: \lquote 
Behold, these three years I come seeking fruit on this fig tree, and find none: cut it down; why cumbereth it the ground?\rquote   And he answering said unto him: \lquote Lord, let it alone this year also, till I 
shall dig about it, and dung it: and if it bear fruit, well; and if not, then after that thou shalt cut it down.\rquote \'94
\par }{\cs25\f1\cf6 
\par }{\cs25\i\f1\cf6 
\par Communion hymn\emdash }{\i 
\par \tab }{The Lord is strong and mighty; the Lord is mighty in war.
\par 
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\scaps\fs28 \sect }\sectd \endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \s30\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par }}\pard\plain \s26\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\noproof\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {During the Service of Supplication
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\cs25\i\f1\cf6 Canon of Supplication to the All-holy Theotokos, chanted in expectation of armed conflict, the acrostic whereof is \'93
O all-pure one, be thou an ally in battle for thy servants\'94, the composition of Joseph, in Tone VI\emdash }{\cs25\f1\cf6 
\par }{\i 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\noproof\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Ode I
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs25\f1\cf6 Irmos:}{  Traversing the deep on foot, as though it were dry l
and, and seeing the tyrant Pharaoh drowned, Israel cried aloud: Let us chant unto God a hymn of victory!}{\i 
\par \tab }{O pure one, who gavest birth to the Lord Who is mighty in strength and powerful and battle, with thine almighty right arm fight with us against the enemy who do battle against us.
\par \tab O Christ, Who of old didst drown Pharaoh in the sea and send his chariots down into the depths, arise now unto our aid, at the supplications of her who gave Thee birth.
\par \tab It is the way of physicians to cut and to cauterize so as to make healthy; but do Thou, O Son of God, cure us with the gentle remedies of Thy compassion, at the entreaties of Thy Mother.
\par \tab }{\cs25\i\f1\cf6 Glory}{\cs25\f1\cf6 \'85}{\i : }{With thy mighty arm destroy the army of aliens which now besetteth us, O Mistress, as the army of Sennecherib was destroyed.
\par \tab }{\cs25\i\f1\cf6 Now & ever\'85:}{\i  }{We arm thee against the bitter foes who do battle against us, O pure one, and send thee against the adverse horde; for thou art the supreme commander of Christians.}{\i 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\noproof\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Ode III
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs25\i\f1\cf6 Irmos}{\cs25\f1\cf6 :}{  There is none as holy as Thee, O Lord my God, Who h
ast uplifted the horn of Thy faithful and established us on the rock of the confession of Thee, O Good One.}{\i 
\par \tab }{They ride on many chariots and on a great multitude of horses, but we are thy people, and we invoke now thy name, and cry out: Save us, O Mistress!
\par \tab O Christ, Who givest strength and power to the weak and liftest up the horn of Thy servants, grant us strength against the barbarous foe, through her who gave Thee birth.
\par \tab The barbarous forces brought together by infidel nations, which look and breath fire, revel in murder and slaughter, and wage war.  Help thy servants, O Mistress!
\par \tab }{\cs25\i\f1\cf6 Glory\'85:}{\i   }{The savage men of blood, full of falsehood, who have assembled against us, have meditated empty things, raging against thy servants, O Theotokos, as saith the Psalmist.
\par \tab }{\cs25\i\f1\cf6 Now & ever\'85:}{\i   }{By extending his arms Moses formed the image of the Cross and vanquished malicious Amalek, O Maiden; and do thou, with thy noetic arm, lay low the enemies of thy people.}{\i 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\noproof\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Ode IV
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs25\i\f1\cf6 Irmos:}{  Christ is my power, my God and my Lord, the honored 
Church doth sing, crying out in godly manner with a pure mind, keeping festival in the Lord.
\par }{\i \tab }{Brandish the sword and fell all the adverse foes who assail us now, O pure one; and do battle against the enemy with the power of thy supplication.
\par \tab Fill the faces of the enemy with shame, great dishonor and disgrace; and let them be turned empty away, as saith the Psalmist, all their works of no avail.
\par \tab O Mistress, let us now know how thou hast desired all the people of this, thy city, lest the enemies who wage war upon us rejoice over us.
\par \tab }{\cs25\i\f1\cf6 Glory\'85: }{\i  }{
In that thou gavest birth unto Him Who with the mere gesture of His hand hath might over all, thou hast Him as an Ally Who is able to accomplish whatsoever He desireth.  Wherefore, if thou desirest our salvation, we will be saved.
\par \tab }{\cs25\i\f1\cf6 Now & ever\'85:  }{Cut off the malicious heads of the mighty ones who wage war upon us, for, astonished by thine aid [to us], they quake inwardly because of the power of the fear of thee, O pure one.}{\i 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\noproof\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Ode V
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs25\i\f1\cf6 Irmos:}{  With Thy divine light illumine the
 souls of those who with love rise at dawn unto Thee, O Good One, that they may know Thee, O Word of God, to be the true God Who calleth all forth from the darkness of sin.}{\i 
\par \tab }{The governors, tyrants, rulers and leaders of alien lands, who have plotted evil against this, thy flock, roar like lions and beasts of savage rage.
\par \tab O Virgin Theotokos, who gavest birth to the Son of God Who is the noetic Ruler of the heavenly hosts, send thou an angelic warrior to our aid.
\par \tab Woes worthy of tears, grief and lamentation have now overtaken us, O Mistress; but haste thou, take pity, and cast the ungodly foe down again, O Virgin.
\par \tab }{\cs25\i\f1\cf6 Glory\'85: }{\i  }{Let not thine inheritance fall into the hands of the heathen, O pure one; let them never say: Where is the Theotokos on whom they set their hope?  But preserve thy fold intact.
\par \tab }{\cs25\i\f1\cf6 Now & ever\'85:  }{Let all the kingdoms of the earth recognize thy might and thine invincible strength, O pure one; let the nations be confounded, and let those tremble who do not acknowledge thine authority.}{\i 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\noproof\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Ode VI
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs25\i\f1\cf6 Irmos:}{\i  }{
 Beholding the sea of life surging with the tempest of temptations, fleeing to Thy calm haven I cry unto Thee: Lead up my life from corruption, O greatly Merciful One!
\par \tab Make of the reliable and chosen arms of thy people a bow of bronze, and gird them about with power and strength, O all-immaculate one, imparting power to them from heaven.
\par \tab Give not us who believe in the name of the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit, and who worship thine honored birthgiving, into the hands of our enemies, O pure one; but break them utterly in pieces.
\par \tab Bending our knees to the ground, groaning and lifting up our hands, let us say: We have sinned against God, O Mistress!  Move Him to mercy, lest the barbarous nations punish us!
\par \tab }{\cs25\i\f1\cf6 Glory\'85: }{\i  }{O Mistress, we cannot bear for the enemy to say: \'93I will pursue, I will overtake, I will divide the spoils; I will satisfy my soul; I will destroy with my sword; my hand shall have dominion.\'94
  Wherefore, go thou before us.
\par \tab }{\cs25\i\f1\cf6 Now & ever\'85:  }{Thy holy temples, the sacred altars, thy precious icons, the holy images, vessels and treasures have thine enemies destroyed, O Virgin.}{\i 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\noproof\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Ode VII
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs25\i\f1\cf6 Irmos:}{
 The Angel caused the furnace to pour forth dew upon the pious youths, and the command of God, which consumed the Chaldeans, prevailed upon the tyrant to cry out: Blessed art Thou, O God of our fathers!}{\i 
\par \tab }{We have not stretched forth our hands to any other God, O Master; and though we have sinned, yet have we not turned away from Thee.  We know none other than Thee; wherefore, have mercy upon us, at the entreaties of the Theotokos.
\par \tab Lo! like many dogs have they surrounded us, like fat bulls have they beset us, and like beasts do they now leap at thy servants to rend us asunder, O pure Mistress.  But with the staff of thy divine hand drive them far away.
\par \tab O thou who savest the world, all-hymned Queen who gavest birth to Christ, the King of kings, preserve this city, and deliver it from bitter captivity and barbaric assault.
\par \tab }{\cs25\i\f1\cf6 Glory\'85: }{\i  }{O all-immaculate one, deliver this, thy city, from civil strife, tumult, turmoil, pursuit, the secret plots of the enemy, and from the assault and expectation of the evil one.
\par \tab }{\cs25\i\f1\cf6 Now & ever\'85:  }{We have thee as an indestructible, invincible and unshakable rampart, an impregnable tower, amid the attacks and assaults of barbarous peoples who r
ejoice to shed blood; and having recourse unto thee, O pure one, we are saved.}{\i 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\noproof\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Ode VIII
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs25\i\f1\cf6 Irmos:}{
  From the flame didst Thou pour forth dew upon the venerable ones, and didst consume the sacrifice of the righteous one with water; for Thou, O Christ, dost do all things soever Thou desirest.  Thee do we exalt supremely for all ages!
\par }{\i \tab }{Blood-thirsty beasts and ravening wolves have surrounded thy servants as they would a flock [of sheep], and are tearing thy reason-endowed lambs to pieces.  Go thou before us, O holy Virgin Theotokos.
\par \tab A nation most numerous, prideful, arrogant, a generation enamored of war, who violateth treaties, hath waged war against us without quarter.  Go thou before us, O holy Virgin Theotokos.
\par \tab Ring thy city round about with the noetic array of the army of heaven, set a rampart around it, and foil the machinations of the enemy. Go thou before us, O holy Virgin Theotokos.
\par \tab As the vile Hadad rose up against Solomon, so hath the Hagarene, also known called the cruel Ishmaelite, risen up against us.  Go thou before us, O holy Virgin Theotokos.
\par }{\i \tab }{\cs25\i\f1\cf6 Glory\'85: }{\i  }{An army that putteth its hope in sword and spear striveth now to destroy thy servants with its weaponry; but, setting our hope on thee, we cry:  Go thou before us, O holy Virgin Theotokos.
\par }{\i \tab }{\cs25\i\f1\cf6 Now & ever\'85:  }{O holy Mistress, Virgin Theotokos, who of old didst wield the bow of might and many times put barbarian invasions to flight, break sword and battle today.}{\i 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\noproof\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Ode IX
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs25\i\f1\cf6 Irmos:}{  It is not possible for men to behold God, upon Whom the ranks of angels dare not
 gaze; but through thee, O most pure one, hath the Word appeared incarnate unto men; and magnifying Him with the armies of heaven, we call thee blessed.
\par \tab Be thou manly strength and might for thy people, O all-immaculate one, a preserver, power, a weapon, and a two-edged sword, cutting down the hordes of the adversary and cleaving the forces of the enemy as though they had a single neck.
\par \tab Like an indestructible and invincible rampart, like an impregnable bulwark and tower for Christians, O pure one, destroy the arrogance of the cruel godless ones, the fuming assault of the tyrants and the threats of the barbarous.
\par \tab With an angel to defend him, Gideon of old cut down the hordes of Midian; and now, O all-pure one, do thou send an angel to drive away the hordes of the barbarous and to crush the enemies who make war upon us.
\par \tab O Mistress, the order of nature is overcome when God, Who createth all things with His hand, so desireth; and thou, who gavest birth to Him in manner transcending nature, art able to do whats
oever thou desirest.  Wherefore, set at nought those who wish to destroy this, thy city.
\par \tab Hearken unto thy servants as they pray in thy holy temple, O pure one, and pour forth the wrath of God upon the nations who do not acknowledge thee, and upon the realms which have not invoked with faith thy much-desired name.
\par \tab }{\cs25\i\f1\cf6 Glory\'85: }{\i  }{O Word, Who hast resolved the great conflict and the long and ancient separation, and hast through the Theotokos united those of heaven with those on earth, and settest at nought this ne
w and grievous war: Grant us peace.
\par \tab }{\cs25\i\f1\cf6 Now & ever\'85:  }{Spread out thy protecting veil like a cloud of light, O Mistress, and cover thy city; and embracing it in the arms wherewith thou didst embrace Christ, preserve it unconquered, for it ever boasteth in thy name.

\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\scaps\fs28 \sect }\sectd \endnhere\sectdefaultcl \pard\plain \s26\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\noproof\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Prayer I, during Assault by Aliens
\par The Composition of Macarius of Philadelphia}{\b0\scaps 
\par }\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\scaps 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\cs23\f1\fs32 \tab 
O Master, Lord our God, Who hath likened himself unto Thee?  Who is like Thee among the gods, O Lord our God?  What god is as great as our God?  O God Who art powerful 
in mercy and good in strength, that Thou mightest comfort and save us all, be Thou not silent, neither render rewards unto the proud; for, lo! Thine enemies have made a noise, they that hate Thee have lifted up their head; they have committed evil against
 Thy people with intent, and have taken counsel against Thy holy ones, saying: \'93Come, let us destroy them, and let the name of Israel be remembered no more!\'94
  The heathen are come into Thine inheritance; they have defiled Thy holy temple; they have set Thin
e honored Jerusalem as it were the hut of an orchard-keeper; they have made the dead bodies of Thy servants to be food for the birds of heaven, the flesh of Thy saints for the beasts of the earth; they have poured out their blood like water round about Je
r
usalem, and there was none to bury them.  How long, O Lord, will Thy wrath be kindled like fire?  How long wilt Thou turn Thy face away from us?  How long shall sinners boast?  How long shall the iniquitous power exercise it?  How long will the rod of the
 
ungodly be lifted up against the lot of the sanctified?  Alas, for our abasement is multiplied, and we are become the least of all the nations!  Alas, for those who trouble us exceedingly are prevailing, and our wounds are deep!  And Thou, O great and mig
h
ty Lord, how long wilt thou not have mercy on Jerusalem?  For I weep like Jeremiah in my bitter contrition, for we have fallen like leaves because of our iniquities, and have reckoned ourselves like the dead in hades.   Yet like Zachariah I still set my h
o
pe on Thee, O Lord Who willest mercy, for Thou art the God of compassions, Who settest at nought the counsels of the mighty and acceptest the supplications of the humble, for we have become a reproach for those near and afar off who are straying from the 
r
ight path in turning away from the dogmas, and who are casting themselves as one into ungodliness; and who, not acknowledging the word of Thine all-wise providence, slander our visitation as  abandonment.  Wherefore, they ought to listen to the priests, w
ho say: \'93Chastened, we are being punished by the Lord, lest we be condemned with the world.\'94  And they ought to learn from common sense, that it is not the dying or the dead who need the physician\rquote 
s attentions; rather those who live in infirmity receive the
 care of healers, and this universal sickness will later be understood as leading to heavenly joy.  But they have neither known nor understood, and for this cause they revile us with impiety, and call our trust in Thee, the true God, iniquity.  We proclai
m
 Thee to be the only-begotten Son of the unoriginate Father, Who art consubstantial with the Father and Thine all-holy Spirit, to Whom Thou art equal; we worship the one Nature, the one Essence, the one Power and Kingship of the Godhead.  But the mindless
 
consider that to suffer these things is punishment for impiety and the mark of captivity, and not a mere transgression; and mocking Thy patience, they blaspheme Thy divinity and deride Thy dispensation, which saveth the world.  Yet absolve, absolve, O Lor
d
 God Who lovest mankind exceedingly!  Have pity, O kind-hearted and merciful Master, and reprove us not greatly in Thy wrath, lest we be shattered; neither punish us in Thine anger, lest we be as before, and it be for us as it was before; but be Thou with
 
us a mighty ally.  Since Thou art able to save in things great and small, strengthen us, O Lord our God, for we have set our hope on Thee, and we boast in Thy name; and may Thy word which Thou spake unto us now be proved true, that Thou art with us foreve
r
, until the end of time; that the horn of Christians shall be lifted up; that they who persecute us shall be put to shame; that they who fill us with fear shall themselves be terrified, and put to shame, and perish, and that their strength shall be broken
 
and their might be no more; and they shall all acknowledge that Thy name is the Lord, Thou alone art Most High over all the earth, and Thine is the kingdom, and the power and the glory; and worship is due unto Thee, our true God and Savior, with Thine uno
riginate Father and Thine all-holy, good and life-creating Spirit, now and ever, and unto the ages of ages.  Amen.
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\scaps\fs28 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\noproof\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Prayer II, during Assault by Aliens}{\b0\scaps\fs28 
\par }\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\scaps\fs28 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs28 \tab }{\cs23\f1\fs32 O Master, Lord our God, unto Thee do we pray, and Thee do we sinners, Thine unworthy servants, beseech,
 that Thou regard the entreaty of us sinners, Thy useless servants, and have mercy upon us: for our iniquities and sins have gone over our heads, O Master, and we have become an object of reproach for the nations, and of mockery and derision for the ungod
l
y Moslems who beset us; and we have been humbled even unto death because of our sins and iniquities, and our blasphemies.  Who will not weep over us who are brought so low?  Who will not lament this our captivity?  For all of this hath come upon us becaus
e of our sins, and iniquities and blasphemies.  Wherefore, though honored children of Sion, we have been reckoned as a potter\rquote 
s vessels; wherefore, gold hath tarnished and good silver hath corroded; wherefore, though Nazarites of Sion who shone forth more b
rightly than snow, we have become black as coal; though whiter than milk, we have become darker than ink; though we are clad in fleece, we have been clothed in shame, and our iniquities have been magnified beyond the iniquities of Sodom; wherefore, though
 
children of the day and of the light, we have become children of the night and of darkness; wherefore, though children of the kingdom, we have become slaves of iniquitous enemies and infidel nations: for we have sinned, we have committed iniquity, we have
 
dealt unrighteously, breaking the commandments of our Lord God.  Yet forsake us not utterly, for the sake of Thy name, O Lord, and break not Thy covenant, and take not Thy mercy away from us, for the sake of Thy compassions, O our Father Who art in the he
a
vens, and for the sake of the lovingkindness of Thine only-begotten Son, and the mercy of Thy Holy Spirit; neither remember Thou our iniquities and sins.  But let Thy compassions go quickly before us, O Lord, for we are become exceeding poor.  Help us, O 
G
od our Savior, for the sake of the glory of Thy name.  Accept the confession of us sinners, Thine unprofitable servants, for the sake of the precious and holy Blood of Thy Son, our Lord Jesus Christ, which He shed for the life of the world; for the sake o
f
 His holy apostles and the martyrs who struggled to shed their own blood for His holy name; and for the sake of the holy prophets, fathers and patriarchs who strove to be well-pleasing to Thy name.  Spurn not our entreaties, O Lord, neither depart not utt
e
rly from us; for we place no hope in our own righteousness, but in Thy mercy, wherewith Thou dost acquire our generation.  Wherefore, we beseech and entreat Thy goodness: Turn us not away from Thy face, neither disdain our unworthiness; but have mercy upo
n
 us according to Thy great mercy, and according to the multitude of Thy compassions overlook our iniquities and sins.  Yea, O omnipotent Master, hearken to the entreaties of us sinners, and help Thy people, and strengthen our army in time of war, and rend
e
r it powerful and mighty.  As Thou gavest strength against the adversaries to Joshua son of Nun and to David Thy prophet, so, O Lord Jesus Christ our God, do Thou strengthen and help Thy people, who call upon Thy holy name, for we know none other God than
 
Thee, and we call upon Thy name; for Thou art He Who worketh all things in all men, and from Thee do we seek help.  Wherefore, look down from heaven, O Lord, and direct Thy gaze from the holy house of Thy glory.  Where is Thy zeal, and where Thy strength?
 
 Where is the magnitude of Thy mercy and Thy compassions?  For Thou art our God, and Thy name is upon us.  Reconsider, O Lord, for the sake of Thy servants, for the sake of Thy Holy Church, for the sake of all Thy saints from ages past.  Our opponents hav
e
 trampled upon Thy holiness; and we have become as we were in the beginning, when Thou didst not exercise Thy dominion over us; for we have all become unclean; all our righteousness is like a filthy rag, and we have fallen like leaves because of our iniqu
i
ties; and there is no-one who calleth upon Thy name and remembereth Thee, that Thou mightest help us.  And Thou hast turned Thy face away from us and abandoned us for the sake of our sins, and iniquities and blasphemies, the enemies, the prideful and the 
i
nfidel nations puffing themselves up.  And now, O Lord our God, be Thou not utterly wroth, for if Thou wilt open heaven, the mountains will tremble at Thy presence and will move from their place, and fire shall consume our adverse and iniquitous foes, and
 
Thy name shall be awesome to those who oppose Thee.  All this time we have not lifted our eyes to any other god.  Wherefore, O Master, look down now from heaven, and see, and save us for the sake of Thy holy name, and deliver us from our ungodly enemies, 
a
nd free us from their wiles, plots and snares; and deprive us not of Thy mighty aid, for we are not strong enough to prevail over those who assail us, but Thou hast the power to save us from our adverse and unbelieving foes.  Strengthen Thy people and our
 
army, and make it steadfast, powerful and mighty in time of war; and cast down, and break in pieces and set at nought the ungodly and unbelieving barbarians, our Moslem foes, and grant glory to Thy holy name, lest the nations say: Where is their God?  Thr
ough the supplications and entreaty of our most glorious Mistress, the Theotokos, and of all Thy saints.  For Thou art our help and strength, and we send up glory unto Thee\emdash 
the unoriginate Father, Thine only-begotten Son, and Thine all-holy, good and life-creating Spirit\emdash now and ever, and unto the ages of ages.  Amen.
\par }\pard\plain \s26\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\noproof\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par Prayer III, during Assault by Aliens
\par The Composition of the Most Holy Patriarch Callistus I
\par }\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\scaps\fs28 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\cs23\f1\fs32 \tab O Lord God of mercy, Bestower of every good thing, God of wonders, Father of compassions, Haven of
 lovingkindness, inexhaustible Well-spring of love for mankind: Who hast ordered all things by Thy mercy; Who bindest and loosest again; Who bringest low, and raisest up again; Who opposest the proud and givest grace to the humble; by Whose dominion all c
r
eation is upheld, the noetic world as much as the material; Whose judgment are a great abyss, and Whose paths are unfathomable; by Whose Spirit all are guided; in Whose hands is the breath and life of all living things; Whom the stars obey; to Whom all th
i
ngs are subject; to Whom all creation doth minister; before Whom all the noetic hosts tremble and honor with unceasing glorification; Whom all things hymn with ineffable voices!  Do Thou, O God of truth, Thou noetic Sun of righteous, Who dost fashion and 
r
efashion all things by Thy will alone, look with an eye of reconciliation and mercy upon Thy sinful and despairing people, and send down upon us Thy rich mercies.  Take pity on Thine inheritance; take pity upon Thy people; take pity upon the vineyard whic
h
 Thy right hand hath planted, for Thine innate goodness toward us entreateth Thee.  Be Thou mindful of the blood of Thy servants which hath been shed; remember Thy holy altars, which have been trodden upon by vile feet and given over to the fire; remember
 
the wretched generation which hath been made captive by the ungodly, who have cursed the piety of their fathers with mindless ignorance and have signed themselves over to the devil, and remove the rod of sins which hath been permitted to strike down the l
o
t of the righteous.  Forsake us not, for the sake of the glory of Thy holy name, for the sake of Thine ineffable mercy which poureth forth in abundance from Thy goodness.  Grant now that our civil authorities may elude the tribulations which beset us and 
m
ay be delivered from treachery and rebellion in our midst.  Strengthen their hands, and subdue under them those who assail us; unify the armed forces in peace and unity of purpose, and preserve them unharmed by every attack of the enemy, visible or invisi
b
le.  Send down unto them Thine angels from Thy holy habitation, to fight with them in battle; grant that they may exercise calm authority amid peace profound, that Thy holy nation may live a peaceful and untroubled life in serenity.  Put a stop to every o
t
her assault and attack made against by Thine invincible right hand, and grant that we may live a long life, unexposed to treachery, through the supplications of our most glorious, all-blessed Mistress, the Theotokos, of Thine immaterial ministers, and of 
all the saints who have been well pleasing to Thee from ages past.  Amen.  
\par }\pard\plain \s26\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\noproof\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par Prayer IV, during Assault by Aliens
\par The Composition of the Most Holy Patriarch Callistus I
\par }\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\scaps\fs28 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\cs23\f1\fs32 \tab O unoriginate King, invisible, inscrutable, unapproachable and ineffable, Who holdest a
ll creation in the palm of Thy hand, and Who dost preserve, uphold and govern it by Thine ineffable word!  O Thou Who didst at first endure the iniquities of the Ninevites, and later accept their repentance and conversion, and gavest them forgiveness for 
a
ll their iniquities and offenses, in Thy wonted and ineffable love for mankind, and Thine excellent goodness and long-suffering!  Accept our prayers, as Thou hast said, as Thou didst the conversion and repentance of the Ninevites; accept our tears and sig
h
s; accept our humble entreaty; for, heavy laden with sins, we are in nowise able to look upon Thee, Who art sinless.  Accept as it were smoke from the depths the cries sent up to Thee, our Master.  Accept the petition of a wretched people, that the depth 
o
f Thy lovingkindness may prevail over the multitude of our sins; and grant Thy people deliverance, freedom from temptations, and release from the stroke of death.  Yea, O Lord our God, hearken to Thy people at this hour, and to me, a sinner; and withdraw 
the rod of sinners, which striketh against the lot of the righteous, whom Thou Thyself knowest, and by whom Thou art known: that we, Thine unprofitable servants, may glorify the all-holy name of Thee\emdash the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit\emdash 
now and ever, and unto the ages of ages.  Amen.
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\scaps\fs28 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\noproof\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par Prayer V, during Assault by Aliens
\par The Composition of the Most Holy Patriarch Callistus I}{\b0\scaps 
\par }\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\scaps\fs28 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs28 \tab }{\cs23\f1\fs32 O all-good Lord, Creator of all, Whose mercy in boundless and Whose love for mankind is incomparable; Who, taking all our iniquitie
s, didst nail them to the Cross, that Thou mightest sanctify us, in that Thou art sinless and a stranger to all defilement.  With boldness we fall down before Thee in supplication, O forbearing Lord, and looking to the depths of Thine ineffable and infini
te love for mankind, we cry out \'93Save us!\'94
 to Thee, the Lord Who is easily reconciled.  We do not offer the songs and hymns of the Pharisee, but those of the Publican; neither do we cry out to Thee like the ungrateful robber, but like the one that was good-natured and thankful we cry: \'93
Remember us!\'94  Wherefore, let Thine unsearchable mercy prevail over our iniquities, and even though we do not repent and convert in a fitting manner, show us still the magnitude of Thy love for us.  In that Thou art long-suffe
ring, have pity and be Thou reconciled with Thy people; withdraw the scythe of death, that it no longer cut us down; bring an end to this speedy and unseasonable mowing; halt this just corruption of deadly contagion; for against Thee alone have we sinned,
 
yet before Thee alone do we fall down.  Yea, O Lord, hearken to us, Thy sinful and unworthy servants, at this hour, and reject not our entreaties, and overlook our offenses, voluntary and involuntary, whether committed in knowledge or in ignorance, that a
mong us may be glorified the all-holy name of Thee\emdash the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit\emdash now and ever, and unto the ages of ages.  Amen.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\noproof\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Prayer VI, during Assault by Aliens
\par The Composition of the Most Holy Patriarch Callistus I}{\b0\scaps 
\par }\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\scaps\fs28 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\cs23\f1\fs32 \tab O Lord Who art easily pl
acated, long-suffering and greatly merciful, Who providest for every creature, noetic and rational, Who grantest that all things come into existence out of non-existence, and Who hast most wisely enabled us to be good: Disdain us not who with glorificatio
n
 and hymns of thanksgiving fall down before thine ineffable goodness, neither reject Thou our contrite prayers and entreaties; but show Thou Thy will from Thy holy habitation, and behold, and visit this vineyard, and perfect that which Thy right hand hath
 
planted; and rescue us from this grievous and pernicious affliction, which is deadly to soul and body.  For this terrible and desperate calamity slayeth and corrupteth not only the bodies, but utterly destroyeth the souls of us who remain unrepentant when
 
we are carried away by Thee, our God.  Wherefore, we beseech and entreat Thee, that Thou hearken to the petitions and pleas of us, Thy servants, and avert from us Thy wrath.  Yea, O Lord, be not wroth against us forever, neither extend Thou Thy just displ
e
asure to us.  For no-one can stand before Thee with boldness, nor can any man be greatly justified in Thy sight; for all human righteousness is as a discarded rag, as saith the eloquent Isaiah; for even the mountains and hills tremble and quake, seized wi
t
h fear of Thee.  Wherefore, allay Thy wrath which is against us, return us from captivity and slavery to the ungodly, and from that captivity of mind which is the result of the threefold waves and the storm of temptations caused by the noetic Pharaoh.  Fo
r
, sinning, we are not able, for both of these reasons, to sing hymns of thanksgiving in a foreign land.  In Thy mercy and compassions remember us, O Lord; send down to us a faithful guardian angel, and entrust our life unto him, that he may rescue us from
 the dread wrath of death and its implacable sword; and that with this release and loosing we may glorify Thee\emdash the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit, the one Godhead and Kingship\emdash to Whom is due all glory, honor and worship, forever.  Amen.

\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\scaps\fs28 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\noproof\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Prayer VII, for the Christian People
\par The Composition of the Most Holy Patriarch Callistus I}{\b0\scaps 
\par }\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\scaps\fs28 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\cs23\f1\fs32 \tab 
Unto Thee do we pray, and Thee do we earnestly entreat, God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, that Thou look upon Thy people and Thine inheritance with an eye of mercy, tak
ing pity on us and upon our land, which hath been laid waste because of our iniquities and made captive and enslaved to the adversary.  Be Thou well pleased to return us to our former freedom, as once Thou didst to Jacob of old, who was the image of Thine
 
only-begotten Son, our God, and Who in Thy good pleasure and will didst restore all his descendants to the good things Thou hadst promised.  For treating them with the philanthropy which is Thy wont, Thou didst remit their iniquities, Thou didst calm all 
T
hy wrath, Thou didst turn away from the rage of Thine anger.  Wherefore, return us also, O God, and vouchsafe that we may keep Thy saving commandments.  Avert Thine anger from us, that Thou not be wroth with us forever or extend Thy wrath from generation 
t
o generation.  O God, turning, grant us life and cause Thy people to rejoice; show Thy mercy even unto us, that we may hear peace and gladness concerning Thee.  Yea, O Lord, hearken unto us sinners, Thine unprofitable servants, at this hour, and cause glo
r
y and peace to dwell in our land; for, moved by Thy collaboration and assistance, we, the unworthy, hope that mercy and truth will go before us; for we know none other than Thee, and we call ourselves by Thy name.  Turn not utterly away from us, but  move
 
Thyself and rise to the aid of us, the sinful and lowly.  And as One not mindful of offenses, Who regretteth our evils, return us from captivity, still the tempest of disasters, and loose our transgressions, that, freed from our calamities we may glorify 
Thee, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, and Him and Thy Holy Spirit, now and ever, and unto the ages of ages.  Amen.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\noproof\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Prayer VIII, for the Civil Authorities & Armed Forces
\par The Composition of the Most Holy Patriarch Callistus I}{\b0\scaps 
\par }\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\scaps\fs28 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\cs23\f1\fs32 \tab O Lord our God, Who in wi
sdom hast formed all things by Thy word alone, and hast brought them out of existence into being, and united them, and gathered them together by Thine ineffable power and activity (for all things are possible, and nought is impossible, for Thee); Who for 
t
his cause hast by Thy will assembled and put in order the times and seasons, Who hast adorned this visible world, Who hast stretched out and dyed the sky as the tabernacle was by Moses, Who didst bring the multitudinous and myriad people of Judah into ord
e
r and oneness of mind, and by Thy right arm and mighty hand didst appoint Moses as their guide, and gavest them one leadership, and didst preserve them unharmed in Thy protection and Thy mighty hand; Who didst appoint the sun as the light of the day, and 
t
he moon to rule the night; Who didst sprinkle the multitude of the stars thickly upon the firmament, and gavest them perpetual motion, and didst set them in order, to maintain their outlines at Thy command, that they may not cause us any harm, but pass sm
o
othly through their courses and movements at Thy will; Who didst uncover the earth, which before was invisible and dark, and didst put it in goodly form for the sake of human nature; Who once set Abraham on his way by Thy divine power, and didst subdue hi
s
 enemies under him; Who gavest strength to Gideon, and didst crush and ruin his adversaries with great destruction; Who gavest strength to David, the king and prophet, over that vile Goliath, and didst utterly destroy him; Who by Moses, Thy favored one, d
i
dst liberate the Hebrew race from bitter slavery, and by Thine invincible power and Thy mighty hand didst drown Pharaoh and all his army, and didst send him down into the depths of the sea, and didst show a pillar of light to be a guide [for Israel], that
 
their feet might not stumble!  O holy King of glory, do Thou now send down from Thy holy habitation, from the throne of the glory of Thy kingdom, a brilliant pillar of light, to guide our civil authorities unto victory over enemies, visible and invisible;
 
and by Thy right hand strengthen them and those loyal officers and officials who serve under them; and grant that their government may be peaceful and undisturbed, undisturbed by any dissent and civil strife.  Yea, O Lord God of mercy, hearken at this hou
r
 unto me, Thy humble and unworthy servant, and make them strong by Thine invincible and irresistable power.  Strengthen our armed forces everywhere, and set at nought the malice and discord of those who rise up against their authority.  Unite them in onen
e
ss of mind and just submission, grant them peace profound and untroubled on land and sea, and bestow upon them all things that are to their benefit: that shaking off all the conflict and sedition which arise, we may with one mouth and one heart glorify Th
ee, the God of wonders.  For Thou art the King of peace and the Savior of our souls, and we send up glory unto Thee\emdash the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit\emdash now and ever, and unto the ages of ages.  Amen.
\par }{
\par }{\i\fs20 Translated from the Church Slavonic by the reader Isaac E. Lambertsen, from }{\b\i\fs20 The Great Euchologion}{\i\fs20  [Trebnik]}{\b\i\fs20  }{\i\fs20 
(Kiev: Printshop of Holy Dormition Lavra of the Kiev Caves, 1902), pp. 387b-402b.  Translation copyright \'a9 2001.  All rights reserved by the translator.}{\fs28 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\par }}