{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial{\*\falt  Helvetica};}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f18\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604030504040204}Tahoma;}{\f270\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f271\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}
{\f273\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f274\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f275\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f276\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE{\*\falt  Helvetica};}
{\f277\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr{\*\falt  Helvetica};}{\f279\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek{\*\falt  Helvetica};}{\f280\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur{\*\falt  Helvetica};}
{\f281\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic{\*\falt  Helvetica};}{\f282\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f283\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f285\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f286\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f287\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}{\f378\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Tahoma CE;}{\f379\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Tahoma Cyr;}{\f381\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Tahoma Greek;}
{\f382\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Tahoma Tur;}{\f383\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Tahoma Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\sb100\sa100\nowidctlpar\adjustright \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\nowidctlpar\adjustright \sbasedon0 \snext16 Definition Term;}{\s16\li360\nowidctlpar\adjustright \sbasedon0 \snext15 Definition List;}{\*\cs17 \additive 
\i Definition;}{\s18\sb100\sa100\keepn\nowidctlpar\outlinelevel1\adjustright \b\fs48\kerning36 \sbasedon0 \snext0 H1;}{\s19\sb100\sa100\keepn\nowidctlpar\outlinelevel2\adjustright \b\fs36 \sbasedon0 \snext0 H2;}{
\s20\sb100\sa100\keepn\nowidctlpar\outlinelevel3\adjustright \b\fs28 \sbasedon0 \snext0 H3;}{\s21\sb100\sa100\keepn\nowidctlpar\outlinelevel4\adjustright \b \sbasedon0 \snext0 H4;}{\s22\sb100\sa100\keepn\nowidctlpar\outlinelevel5\adjustright \b\fs20 
\sbasedon0 \snext0 H5;}{\s23\sb100\sa100\keepn\nowidctlpar\outlinelevel6\adjustright \b\fs16 \sbasedon0 \snext0 H6;}{\s24\nowidctlpar\adjustright \i \sbasedon0 \snext0 Address;}{\s25\li360\ri360\sb100\sa100\nowidctlpar\adjustright \sbasedon0 \snext25 
Blockquote;}{\*\cs26 \additive \i CITE;}{\*\cs27 \additive \f2\fs20 CODE;}{\*\cs28 \additive \i \sbasedon10 Emphasis;}{\*\cs29 \additive \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 Hyperlink;}{\*\cs30 \additive \ul\cf12 \sbasedon10 FollowedHyperlink;}{\*\cs31 \additive 
\b\f2\fs20 Keyboard;}{\s32\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\tx9590\adjustright \f2\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext32 Preformatted;}{\s33\qc\nowidctlpar\brdrt\brdrdb\brdrw5\brdrcf1 \adjustright \v\f1\fs16 
\snext0 \shidden z-Bottom of Form;}{\s34\qc\nowidctlpar\brdrb\brdrdb\brdrw5\brdrcf1 \adjustright \v\f1\fs16 \snext0 \shidden z-Top of Form;}{\*\cs35 \additive \f2 Sample;}{\*\cs36 \additive \b \sbasedon10 Strong;}{\*\cs37 \additive \f2\fs20 Typewriter;}
{\*\cs38 \additive \i Variable;}{\*\cs39 \additive \v\cf6 HTML Markup;}{\*\cs40 \additive \v Comment;}{\s41\sb100\sa100\nowidctlpar\adjustright \cbpat9 \f18 \sbasedon0 \snext41 Document Map;}{\s42\sb100\sa100\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright 
\sbasedon0 \snext42 header;}{\*\cs43 \additive \b\i\f1 \sbasedon10 ssbi;}{\*\cs44 \additive \i\f1\cf6 \sbasedon10 ru;}{\s45\qj\li576\ri576\sb100\sa100\sl360\slmult1\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f1\fs36\cf15 \sbasedon25 \snext45 si;}{
\s46\sb100\sa100\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \sbasedon0 \snext46 footer;}{\*\cs47 \additive \b\f0\fs36 \sbasedon10 audible;}{\s48\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext48 Plain Text;}}{\info
{\title Sluzebnic - Divine Liturgy of St John Chrysostom}{\author Fr Seraphim Holland}{\keywords eastern orthodox, liturgical, palmpilot, horologion, compline, midnight office, moleben, trebnic, divine liturgy, liturgy}{\operator Fr Seraphim Holland}
{\creatim\yr2000\mo11\dy23\hr11\min30}{\revtim\yr2000\mo11\dy23\hr12\min6}{\printim\yr2000\mo11\dy23\hr12\min6}{\version5}{\edmins6}{\nofpages7}{\nofwords750}{\nofchars4279}{\*\company Alcatel USA, Inc}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern71}}{\*\userprops 
{\propname Description}\proptype30{\staticval 
Prayers to Our Lord Jesus Christ, the theotokos and the Guardian Angel, from their supplicatory canons - one of many Eastern Orthodox Christian Liturgical Services and Prayers in Printable, PalmPilot, rtf, pdf and HTML formats}{\propname revisit-after}
\proptype30{\staticval 15 days}{\propname ROBOTS}\proptype30{\staticval ALL}{\propname UnknownHead_0_1_0}\proptype30{\staticval <LINK rel=STYLESHEET HREF=../ss.css TYPE=text/css>\'0d\'0d}{\propname UnknownHead_1_1_0}\proptype30{\staticval 
<LINK rel=STYLESHEET HREF=svc.css TYPE=text/css>\'0d\'0d}{\propname UnknownBody_0_1_0}\proptype30{\staticval MARGINWIDTH=0}{\propname UnknownBody_1_1_0}\proptype30{\staticval MARGINHEIGHT=0}{\propname UnknownBody_2_1_0}\proptype30{\staticval LEFTMARGIN=0}
{\propname UnknownBody_3_1_0}\proptype30{\staticval TOPMARGIN=0}}\margl1440\margr1440\margt720\margb720 \facingp\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\viewkind1\viewscale100 \fet0{\*\background 
{\shp{\*\shpinst\shpleft0\shptop0\shpright0\shpbottom0\shpfhdr0\shpbxmargin\shpbymargin\shpwr0\shpwrk0\shpfblwtxt1\shpz0\shplid1025{\sp{\sn shapeType}{\sv 1}}{\sp{\sn fFlipH}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fFlipV}{\sv 0}}
{\sp{\sn fillColor}{\sv 13434879}}{\sp{\sn fFilled}{\sv 1}}{\sp{\sn lineWidth}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fLine}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fBackground}{\sv 1}}}}}\sectd \psz1\linex0\vertalc\sectdefaultcl {\footerl \pard\plain \s46\qc\sb100\sa100\nowidctlpar
\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright {Vespers - Prayers at Lamplighting Time\tab - }{\field{\*\fldinst { PAGE }}{\fldrslt {\lang1024 6}}}{ -
\par }}{\footerr \pard\plain \s46\qc\sb100\sa100\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright {Vespers - Prayers at Lamplighting Time
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s48\qc\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\cs44\b\f1\fs96\cgrid0 Vespers
\par }\pard \s48\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\cs44\b\f1\fs96\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \s48\qc\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\cs44\b\f1\fs96\cgrid0 Prayers
\par at
\par lamplighting Time}{\cs44\i\f1\fs28\cf6\cgrid0  \sect }\sectd \linex0\sectdefaultcl \pard\plain \s48\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\cs44\i\f1\fs28\cf6\cgrid0 The priest, standing before the holy door with bared head, saith t
he "Prayers of Lamplighting Time"}{\f0\fs36 
\par }{\cs44\i\f1\fs28\cf6\cgrid0 
\par First Prayer}{\f0\fs36 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s45\qj\li576\ri576\sb100\sa100\sl360\slmult1\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f1\fs36\cf15 {
O LORD, COMPASSIONATE and merciful, long-suffering and plenteous in mercy, give ear unto our prayer and attend to the voice of our supplication; work in us a sign unto good; guide us in Thy way, that we may 
walk in Thy truth; make glad our hearts, that we may fear Thy holy name; for Thou art great and workest wonders, Thou alone art God, and there is none like unto Thee among the gods, O Lord strong in mercy and good in might, to help and comfort, and to sav
e all that hope in Thy holy name. For unto Thee is due all glory, honor and worship: to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit, now and ever, and unto the ages of ages. Amen.
\par }\pard\plain \s48\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\f0\fs36 
\par }{\cs44\i\f1\fs28\cf6\cgrid0 Second Prayer}{\f0\fs36 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s45\qj\li576\ri576\sb100\sa100\sl360\slmult1\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f1\fs36\cf15 {O Lord, rebuke us not in Thine anger, nor chasten us i
n Thy wrath, but deal with us according to Thy mercy, O Physician and Healer of our souls. Guide us unto the haven of Thy will; enlighten the eyes of our hearts to the knowledge of Thy truth; and grant unto us that the remainder of the present day and the
 
whole time of our life may be peaceful and sinless, through the intercessions of the holy Theotokos and of all the saints. For Thine is the dominion, and Thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory: of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Sp
irit, now and ever, and unto the ages of ages. Amen.  
\par }\pard \s45\qr\li576\ri576\sb100\sa100\sl360\slmult1\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs64 \u8594\'3f
\par }\pard\plain \s48\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\f0\fs36 \sect }\sectd \linex0\sectdefaultcl \pard\plain \s48\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\f0\fs36 
\par }{\cs44\i\f1\fs28\cf6\cgrid0 Third Prayer}{\f0\fs36 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s45\qj\li576\ri576\sb100\sa100\sl360\slmult1\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f1\fs36\cf15 {
O Lord our God, remember us, Thy sinful and unprofitable servants, when we call upon Thy holy, venerable name, and turn us not away in shame from the expectation of Thy me
rcy; but grant us, O Lord, all our requests which are unto salvation, and vouchsafe us to love and to fear Thee with our whole heart, and to do Thy will in all things For a good God art Thou, and the Lover of mankind, and unto Thee do we send up glory, to
 the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit, now and ever, and unto the ages of ages. Amen
\par }\pard\plain \s48\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\f0\fs36 
\par }{\cs44\i\f1\fs28\cf6\cgrid0 Fourth Prayer}{\f0\fs36 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s45\qj\li576\ri576\sb100\sa100\sl360\slmult1\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f1\fs36\cf15 {O Thou Who with never-silent hymns and unceasing doxologies art praised in song by the H
oly Hosts, fill our mouth with Thy praise, that we may magnify Thy holy name. And grant unto us part and inheritance with all that truly fear Thee and keep Thy commandments, through the intercessions of the holy Theotokos and of all Thy saints. For unto T
hee is due all glory, honor and worship: to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit, now and ever and unto the ages of ages. Amen. 
\par }\pard\plain \s48\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\f0\fs36 
\par }{\cs44\i\f1\fs28\cf6\cgrid0 Fifth Prayer}{\f0\fs36 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s45\qj\li576\ri576\sb100\sa100\sl360\slmult1\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f1\fs36\cf15 {O Lord, O Lord, Who upholds all things in the most pure hollow of Thy hand, Who art long-suffering 
toward us all and repentest Thee at our wickedness, remember Thy compassion and Thy mercy. Visit us with Thy goodness, and grant unto us during the remainder of the present day, by Thy grace, to flee the divers subtle snares of the Evil One, and to keep o
u
r life unassailed through the grace of Thine all-holy Spirit, through the mercy and love for mankind of Thine only-begotten son, with Whom Thou art blessed, together with Thine all-holy and good, and life-creating Spirit, now and ever, and unto the ages o
f ages. Amen
\par }\pard \s45\qr\li576\ri576\sb100\sa100\sl360\slmult1\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs64 \u8594\'3f
\par }\pard\plain \s48\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\f0\fs36 \sect }\sectd \linex0\sectdefaultcl \pard\plain \s48\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\cs44\i\f1\fs28\cf6\cgrid0 Sixth Prayer}{\f0\fs36 
\par }\pard\plain \s45\qj\li576\ri576\sb100\sa100\sl360\slmult1\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f1\fs36\cf15 {
O God, great and wondrous, Who with goodness unsearchable and abundant providence orderest all things, and grantest unto us earthly good things; Who hast given us a pledge of the promised kingdom through the good th
ings already bestowed upon us; and hast made us to shun all evil during that part of the day which is past: Grant us also to fulfill the remainder of this day blamelessly before Thy holy glory; to hymn Thee, the only Good One, our God, Who lovest mankind.
 For Thou art our God, and unto Thee do we send up glory: to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit, now and ever, and unto the ages of ages. Amen.
\par }\pard\plain \s48\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\cs44\i\f1\fs28\cf6\cgrid0 Seventh Prayer}{\f0\fs36 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s45\qj\li576\ri576\sb100\sa100\sl360\slmult1\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f1\fs36\cf15 {O God, great and most high, Who alone hast immortality, and dwellest in light una
pproachable; Who hast fashioned all creation in wisdom; Who hast divided the light from the darkness, and hast set the sun for dominion of the day, the moon the stars for dominion of the night; Who hast vouchsafed unto us sinners at this present hour to c
o
me before Thy presence with thanksgiving and to offer thee evening doxology; Do thyself direct our prayer as incense before Thee and accept it for a sweet smelling savor; grant unto us that the present evening and the coming night be peaceful. Cloth us wi
t
h the armor of light. Deliver us from the terror by night and from everything that walketh in darkness. And grant that the sleep which Thou hast given for the repose of our infirmity may be free from all fantasies of the Devil. Yea, O Master, Giver of goo
d
 things, may we, being moved to compunction upon our beds, remember Thy name in the night, and, enlightened by meditation on Thy commandments, rise up in joyfulness of soul to the glorification of Thy goodness, offering prayers and supplications to Thy lo
v
ingkindness for our own sins and for those of all Thy people, whom do Thou visit in mercy, through the intercessions of the Holy Theotokos. For a good God art Thou, and unto Thee do we send up glory: to the Father and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit, n
ow and ever, and unto the ages of ages. Amen.
\par }}