{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f3\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05050102010706020507}Symbol;}{\f15\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604030504040204}Tahoma;}
{\f47\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02040604050505020304}Century Schoolbook{\*\falt Bookman Old Style};}{\f48\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f49\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}
{\f51\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f52\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f53\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f54\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f55\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}
{\f57\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f58\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}{\f59\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}{\f60\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f61\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}
{\f63\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f64\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f65\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}{\f138\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Tahoma CE;}{\f139\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Tahoma Cyr;}
{\f141\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Tahoma Greek;}{\f142\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Tahoma Tur;}{\f143\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Tahoma Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;
\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\sb100\sa100\nowidctlpar\adjustright \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\nowidctlpar\adjustright \sbasedon0 \snext16 Definition Term;}{\s16\li360\nowidctlpar\adjustright 
\sbasedon0 \snext15 Definition List;}{\*\cs17 \additive \i Definition;}{\s18\sb100\sa100\keepn\nowidctlpar\outlinelevel1\adjustright \b\fs48\kerning36 \sbasedon0 \snext0 H1;}{\s19\sb100\sa100\keepn\nowidctlpar\outlinelevel2\adjustright \b\fs36 
\sbasedon0 \snext0 H2;}{\s20\sb100\sa100\keepn\nowidctlpar\outlinelevel3\adjustright \b\fs28 \sbasedon0 \snext0 H3;}{\s21\sb100\sa100\keepn\nowidctlpar\outlinelevel4\adjustright \b \sbasedon0 \snext0 H4;}{
\s22\sb100\sa100\keepn\nowidctlpar\outlinelevel5\adjustright \b\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 H5;}{\s23\sb100\sa100\keepn\nowidctlpar\outlinelevel6\adjustright \b\fs16 \sbasedon0 \snext0 H6;}{\s24\nowidctlpar\adjustright \i \sbasedon0 \snext0 Address;}{
\s25\li360\ri360\sb100\sa100\nowidctlpar\adjustright \sbasedon0 \snext25 Blockquote;}{\*\cs26 \additive \i CITE;}{\*\cs27 \additive \f2\fs20 CODE;}{\*\cs28 \additive \i \sbasedon10 Emphasis;}{\*\cs29 \additive \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 Hyperlink;}{\*\cs30 
\additive \ul\cf12 \sbasedon10 FollowedHyperlink;}{\*\cs31 \additive \b\f2\fs20 Keyboard;}{\s32\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\tx9590\adjustright \f2\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext32 Preformatted;}{
\s33\qc\nowidctlpar\brdrt\brdrdb\brdrw5\brdrcf1 \adjustright \v\f1\fs16 \snext0 \shidden z-Bottom of Form;}{\s34\qc\nowidctlpar\brdrb\brdrdb\brdrw5\brdrcf1 \adjustright \v\f1\fs16 \snext0 \shidden z-Top of Form;}{\*\cs35 \additive \f2 Sample;}{\*\cs36 
\additive \b \sbasedon10 Strong;}{\*\cs37 \additive \f2\fs20 Typewriter;}{\*\cs38 \additive \i Variable;}{\*\cs39 \additive \v\cf6 HTML Markup;}{\*\cs40 \additive \v Comment;}{\s41\sb100\sa100\nowidctlpar\adjustright \cbpat9 \f15 \sbasedon0 \snext41 
Document Map;}{\s42\sb100\sa100\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \sbasedon0 \snext42 header;}{\*\cs43 \additive \b\i\f1 \sbasedon10 ssbi;}{\*\cs44 \additive \i\f1\cf6 \sbasedon10 ru;}{\s45\qj\li576\ri576\sb100\sa100\sl360\slmult1
\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f1\fs36\cf15 \sbasedon25 \snext45 si;}{\s46\sb100\sa100\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \sbasedon0 \snext46 footer;}{\*\cs47 \additive \b\f0\fs36 \sbasedon10 audible;}{\s48\widctlpar\adjustright \fs36\cgrid 
\sbasedon0 \snext48 Body Text 2;}{\s49\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext49 Plain Text;}{\s50\qj\li576\ri576\sb100\sa100\sl360\slmult1\nowidctlpar\adjustright \i\f1\fs36\cf16 \sbasedon45 \snext50 si-deacon;}{
\s51\sb100\sa100\nowidctlpar\adjustright \b\i \sbasedon0 \snext51 audible-deacon-only;}{\s52\qj\li576\ri576\sb100\sa100\sl360\slmult1\nowidctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f1\fs28\cf16 \sbasedon50 \snext52 si-deacon-label;}{\*\cs53 \additive \b\f0\fs36 
\sbasedon10 priest-aloud;}{\*\cs54 \additive \b\i\f0\fs28 \sbasedon53 priest-aloud-label;}{\*\cs55 \additive \f1\fs32 \sbasedon10 reader;}{\*\cs56 \additive \i\f1\fs24 \sbasedon55 reader-label;}{\s57\qc\widctlpar\adjustright 
\b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\cgrid \snext0 ru-label;}{\*\cs58 \additive \f1\fs36\cf15 \sbasedon55 choir;}{\*\cs59 \additive \b\i\f1\fs28\cf15 \sbasedon58 choir-label;}{\s60\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f47\fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext60 rubrics;}
{\s61\qj\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\kerning24\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext61 ikos;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid-1316163486\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc23\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat0\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext
\'01\'97;}{\levelnumbers;}\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid798687373}{\list\listtemplateid-1948070874\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc23\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat0\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext
\'01\'97;}{\levelnumbers;}\fbias0 \fi-510\li510\jclisttab\tx510 }{\listname ;}\listid1183318614}{\list\listtemplateid-1948070874\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc23\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat0\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext
\'01\'97;}{\levelnumbers;}\fbias0 \fi-510\li510\jclisttab\tx510 }{\listname ;}\listid1320377314}{\list\listtemplateid-1948070874\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc23\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat0\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext
\'01\'97;}{\levelnumbers;}\fbias0 \fi-510\li510\jclisttab\tx510 }{\listname ;}\listid1565220167}{\list\listtemplateid67698689\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc23\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext
\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid1828788903}}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1320377314\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid1183318614\listoverridecount0\ls2}
{\listoverride\listid1565220167\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid798687373\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid1828788903\listoverridecount0\ls5}}{\info{\title Sluzebnic - Divine Liturgy of St John Chrysostom}
{\author Fr Seraphim Holland}{\keywords eastern orthodox, liturgical, palmpilot, horologion, compline, midnight office, moleben, trebnic, divine liturgy, liturgy}{\operator tholland}{\creatim\yr2001\mo3\dy6\hr12\min7}{\revtim\yr2001\mo3\dy6\hr12\min20}
{\printim\yr2000\mo10\dy14\hr16\min20}{\version4}{\edmins5}{\nofpages28}{\nofwords5379}{\nofchars30661}{\*\company Alcatel USA, Inc}{\nofcharsws37653}{\vern113}}{\*\userprops {\propname Description}\proptype30{\staticval 
Prayers to Our Lord Jesus Christ, the theotokos and the Guardian Angel, from their supplicatory canons - one of many Eastern Orthodox Christian Liturgical Services and Prayers in Printable, PalmPilot, rtf, pdf and HTML formats}{\propname revisit-after}
\proptype30{\staticval 15 days}{\propname ROBOTS}\proptype30{\staticval ALL}{\propname UnknownHead_0_1_0}\proptype30{\staticval <LINK rel=STYLESHEET HREF=../ss.css TYPE=text/css>\'0d\'0d}{\propname UnknownHead_1_1_0}\proptype30{\staticval 
<LINK rel=STYLESHEET HREF=svc.css TYPE=text/css>\'0d\'0d}{\propname UnknownBody_0_1_0}\proptype30{\staticval MARGINWIDTH=0}{\propname UnknownBody_1_1_0}\proptype30{\staticval MARGINHEIGHT=0}{\propname UnknownBody_2_1_0}\proptype30{\staticval LEFTMARGIN=0}
{\propname UnknownBody_3_1_0}\proptype30{\staticval TOPMARGIN=0}}\margl1440\margr1440\margt720\margb720 \facingp\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\viewkind1\viewscale100 \fet0{\*\background 
{\shp{\*\shpinst\shpleft0\shptop0\shpright0\shpbottom0\shpfhdr0\shpbxmargin\shpbymargin\shpwr0\shpwrk0\shpfblwtxt1\shpz0\shplid1025{\sp{\sn shapeType}{\sv 1}}{\sp{\sn fFlipH}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fFlipV}{\sv 0}}
{\sp{\sn fillColor}{\sv 13434879}}{\sp{\sn fFilled}{\sv 1}}{\sp{\sn lineWidth}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fLine}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fBackground}{\sv 1}}}}}\sectd \psz1\linex0\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\footerl \pard\plain \s46\qc\sb100\sa100\nowidctlpar
\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright {Small Compline
\par }}{\footerr \pard\plain \s46\qc\sb100\sa100\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright {Great Compline
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qc\sb100\sa100\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\f1\fs40\cf6 Small Compline}{\fs28 
\par }\pard \sb100\sa100\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\cs53\b\fs36 
\par The audible prayers of the 
\par }{\cs54\b\i\fs28 Priest:}{\cs53\b\fs36  are in Bold, Times New Roman. 
\par }{\cs55\f1\fs32 
\par The parts that may be sung by the 
\par }{\cs59\b\i\f1\fs28\cf15 Choir:}{\cs55\f1\fs32  }{\cs58\f1\fs36\cf15 are gray, and in a sans-serif type.
\par }{\cs55\f1\fs32 
\par The parts of the 
\par }{\cs56\i\f1 Reader:}{\cs55\f1\fs32  are in smaller, Sans-serif type
\par }{\cs44\i\f1\cf6 
\par Rubrics are red, in Italics
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s57\qc\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\cgrid {\cs44\i0 Headings are centered, in a Larger, Red Type}{\cs55 \sect }\sectd \linex0\sectdefaultcl \pard\plain \sb100\sa100\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs28 \sect }\sectd 
\linex0\sectdefaultcl {\footerl \pard\plain \s46\qc\sb100\sa100\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright {Small Compline Page }{\field{\*\fldinst { PAGE }}{\fldrslt {\lang1024 26}}}{ of }{\field{\*\fldinst { NUMPAGES }}{\fldrslt {\lang1024 29}}}{

\par }}{\footerr \pard\plain \s46\qc\sb100\sa100\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright {Small Compline Page }{\field{\*\fldinst { PAGE }}{\fldrslt {\lang1024 27}}}{ of }{\field{\*\fldinst { NUMPAGES }}{\fldrslt {\lang1024 29}}}{
\par }}\pard\plain \s25\ri360\sb100\sa100\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\cs44\i\f1\fs28\cf6 The priest, vested in the epatrachial, gives the blessing:
\par }\pard\plain \qj\sb100\sa100\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\cs54\b\i\fs28 Priest:}{\cs53\b\fs36  Blessed is our God, always, now and ever, and unto the ages of ages.
\par }{\cs56\i\f1 Reader: }{\cs55\f1\fs32 Amen. Glory to Thee, our God, glory to Thee}{\cs55\b\f1\fs32 .}{\cs53\b\fs36  
\par }\pard \sb100\sa100\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\cs55\f1\fs32 O Heavenly King, Comforte
r, Spirit of Truth, Who art everywhere present and fillest all things, Treasury of good things and Giver of life: Come and dwell in us, and cleanse us of all impurity, and save our souls, O Good One. 
\par Holy God, Holy Mighty, Holy Immortal, have mercy on us. }{\cs44\i\f1\cf6 (Thrice)}{\cs55\f1\fs32  
\par Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit, both now and ever, and unto the ages of ages. Amen. 
\par O Most Holy Trinity, have mercy on us. O Lord, blot out our sins. O Master, pardon our iniquities. O Holy One, visit and heal our infirmities for Thy name's sake. 
\par Lord have mercy. }{\cs44\i\f1\cf6 (Thrice)}{\cs55\f1\fs32  
\par Glory to the Father and to the Son and to the Holy Spirit, both now and ever, and unto the ages of ages. Amen. 
\par Our Father, Who art in the Heavens, hallowed by Thy Name. Thy Kingdom come, Thy will
 be done, on earth as it is in Heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors; and lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one. 
\par }\pard \qj\sb100\sa100\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\cs54\b\i\fs28 Priest:}{\cs53\b\fs36  For Thine is the Kingdom, and the power, and the glory; of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit, now and ever, and unto the ages of ages. 
\par }{\cs56\i\f1 \sect }\sectd \marglsxn2160\margrsxn720\margbsxn432\psz1\linex0\footery432\endnhere\sectdefaultcl \pard\plain \qj\sb100\sa100\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\cs56\i\f1 Reader: }{\cs55\f1\fs32 Amen. Lord have mercy.}{\cs53\b\fs36  }{\cs44\i\f1\cf6 
(12 times)}{\cs53\b\fs36  
\par }{\cs55\f1\fs32 Glory to the Father and to the Son and to the Holy Spirit, both now and ever, and unto the ages of ages. Amen.}{\cs53\b\fs36  
\par }{\cs55\f1\fs32 O come, let us worship God our King. 
\par O come, let us worship and fall down before Christ our King and God. 
\par O come, let us worship and fall down before Christ Himself, our King and God.}{\cs53\b\fs36  
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s57\qc\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\cgrid {\cs53\b0\f0\fs36 PSALM 50 
\par }\pard\plain \sb100\sa100\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s57\qj\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\cgrid {\b0\i0\cf0\lang1033\cgrid0 Have mercy on me, O God, according to Thy great mercy; and according to the multitude of Thy compassions blot out my transgression. 
\par 
\par Wash me thoroughly from mine iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin. 
\par 
\par For I know mine iniquity, and my sin is ever before me. 
\par 
\par Against Thee only have I sinned and done this evil before Thee, that Thou mightest be justified in Thy words, and prevail when Thou art judged. 
\par 
\par For behold, I was conceived in iniquities, and in sins did my mother bear me. 
\par 
\par For behold, Thou hast loved truth; the hidden and secret things of Thy wisdom hast Thou made manifest unto me. 
\par 
\par Thou shalt sprinkle me with hyssop, and I shall be made clean; Thou shalt wash me, and I shall be made whiter than snow. 
\par 
\par Thou shalt make me to hear joy and gladness; the bones that be humbled, they shall rejoice. 
\par 
\par Turn Thy face away from my sins, and blot out all mine iniquities. 
\par 
\par Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a right spirit within me. 
\par 
\par Cast me not away from Thy presence, and take not Thy Holy Spirit from me. 
\par 
\par Restore unto me the joy of Thy salvation, and with Thy governing Spirit establish me. 
\par 
\par I shall teach transgressors Thy ways, and the ungodly shall turn back unto Thee. 
\par 
\par Deliver me from blood-guiltiness, O God, Thou God of my salvation; my tongue shall rejoice in Thy righteousness. 
\par 
\par O Lord, Thou shalt open my lips, and my mouth shall declare Thy praise. 
\par 
\par For if Thou hadst desired sacrifice, I had given it; with whole-burnt offerings Thou shalt not be pleased. 
\par 
\par A sacrifice unto God is a broken spirit; a heart that is broken and humbled God will not despise. 
\par 
\par Do good, O Lord, in Thy good pleasure unto Sion, and let the walls of Jerusalem be builded. 
\par 
\par Then shalt Thou be pleased with a sacrifice of righteousness, with oblation and whole-burnt offerings. 
\par 
\par Then shall they offer bullocks upon Thine altar.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\sb100\sa100\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\cs53\b\fs36 
\par }\pard\plain \s57\qc\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\cgrid {\cs53\b0\f0\fs36 PSALM 69 
\par }\pard\plain \sb100\sa100\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \qj\sb100\sa100\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\f1\fs32 O God, be attentive unto helping me; O Lord, make haste to help me. 
\par Let them be shamed and confounded that seek after my soul. 
\par Let them be turned back and brought to shame that desire evils against me. 
\par Let them be turned back straightway in shame that say unto me: Well done! Well done! 
\par Let them be glad and rejoice in Thee all that seek after Thee, O God, and let them that love Thy salvation say continually: The Lord be magnified.
\par But as for me, I am poor and needy; O God, come unto mine aid. 
\par My helper and my deliverer art Thou, O Lord; make no long tarrying.}{\cs53\b\fs36 
\par }\pard\plain \s57\qc\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\cgrid {\cs53\b0\f0\fs36 
\par PSALM 142 
\par }\pard\plain \sb100\sa100\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \qj\sb100\sa100\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\f1\fs32 O Lord, hear my prayer, give ear unto my supplication in Thy truth; hearken unto me in Thy righteousness. 
\par And enter not into judgement with Thy servant, for in Thy sight shall no man living be justified. 
\par For the enemy hath persecuted my soul; he hath humbled my life down to the earth. 
\par He hath sat me in darkness as those that have been long dead, and my spirit within me is become despondent; within me my heart is troubled. 
\par I remembered days of old, I meditated on all Thy works, I pondered on the creations of Thy hands. 
\par I stretched forth my hands unto Thee; my soul thirsteth after Thee like a waterless land. 
\par Quickly hear me, O Lord; my spirit hath fainted away. 
\par Turn not Thy face away from me, lest I be like unto them that go down into the pit. 
\par 
\par Cause me to hear Thy mercy in the morning; for in Thee have I put my hope. 
\par Cause me to know, O Lord, the way wherein I should walk; for unto Thee have I lifted up my soul. 
\par Rescue me from mine enemies, O Lord; unto Thee have I fled for refuge. Teach me to do Thy will, for Thou art my God. 
\par Thy good Spirit shall lead me in the land of uprightness; for Thy name's sake, O Lord, shalt Thou quicken me. 
\par In Thy righteousness shalt Thou bring my soul out of affliction, and in Thy mercy shalt Thou utterly destroy mine enemies. 
\par And Thou shalt cut off all them that afflict my soul, for I am Thy servant.}{\cs55\f1\fs32 
\par }\pard\plain \s57\qc\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\cgrid {\cs53\b0\f0\fs36 
\par THE DOXOLOGY
\par }\pard\plain \sb100\sa100\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \qj\sb100\sa100\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\cs56\i\f1 Reader:}{\cs55\f1\fs32  Glory to God in the highest, and on earth, peace and good will among men. 
\par We praise Thee, we bless Thee, we worship Thee, we glorify Thee, we give thanks to Thee for Thy great glory. 
\par O Lord, heavenly King, God the Father Almighty; O Lord, the only-begotten Son, Jesus Christ; and O Holy Spirit. O Lord God, Lamb of God
, Son of the Father, that takest away the sin of the world; have mercy on us; Thou that takest away the sins of the world, receive our prayer; Thou that sittest at the right hand of the Father, have mercy on us. 
\par For Thou only art holy; Thou only art the Lord, O Jesus Christ, to the glory of God the Father. Amen. 
\par Every night will I bless Thee, and I will praise Thy Name forever, yea, forever and forever. 
\par Lord, thou hast been our refuge in generation and generation. 
\par I said: O Lord, have mercy on me, heal my soul, for I have sinned against Thee. 
\par O Lord, unto Thee have I fled for refuge, teach me to do Thy will, for Thou art my God. 
\par For in Thee is the fountain of life, in Thy light shall we see light. 
\par O continue Thy mercy unto them that know Thee. 
\par Vouchsafe, O Lord, to keep us this night without sin. 
\par Blessed art Thou, O Lord, the God of our Fathers, and praised and glorified is Thy name unto the ages of ages. Amen.
\par Let Thy mercy, O Lord, be upon us, according as we have hoped in Thee. 
\par Blessed art Thou, O Lord, teach me Thy statutes. 
\par Blessed art Thou, O Master, give me understanding of Thy statutes. 
\par Blessed art Thou, O Holy One, enlighten me by Thy statutes. 
\par O Lord, Thy mercy endureth forever; disdain not the works of Thy hands. 
\par To Thee is due praise, to Thee is due a song, to Thee glory is due, to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit, now and ever, and unto the ages of ages. Amen.
\par }{\cs53\b\fs36 
\par }{\cs44\i\f1\cf6 And immediately, in a lower voice, the reader:
\par }{\cs55\f1\fs32 
\par }{\cs56\i\f1 Reader: }{\cs55\f1\fs32 I believe in one God, the Father Almighty, Maker of
 heaven and the earth and of all things visible and invisible. And in one Lord Jesus Christ, the Son of God, the Only-begotten, begotten of the Father before all ages; Light of Light, true God of true God; begotten, not made; of one essence with the Fathe
r
, by Whom all things were made; Who for us men and for our salvation came down from the heavens, and was incarnate of the Holy Spirit and the Virgin Mary, and became man; And was crucified for us under Pontius Pilate, and suffered and was buried; And aros
e
 again on the third day according to the Scriptures; And ascended into the heavens, and sitteth at the right hand of the Father; And shall come again, with glory, to judge both the living and the dead; Whose kingdom shall have no end. And in the Holy Spir
i
t, the Lord, the Giver of life; Who proceedeth from the Father; Who with the Father and the Son together is worshipped and glorified; Who spake by the prophets. In One, Holy, Catholic, and Apostolic Church. I confess one baptism for the remission of sins.
 I look for the resurrection of the dead, And the life of the age to come. Amen. 
\par }\pard\plain \s60\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f47\fs20\cgrid {\cs44\b0\f1\fs24\cf6\cgrid0 
\par At this point, a canon is read, being for the Theotokos, from the Oktoechos, or from the Menaion. And after the canon, the Stichera from Vespers, or from the Praises of Matins if there be any appointed for the Saint
\par }{\cs44\b0\i0\f1\fs24\cf6\cgrid0 
\par }{\cs44\b0\f1\fs24\cf6\cgrid0 \sect }\sectd \marglsxn2160\margrsxn720\margbsxn432\psz1\linex0\footery432\endnhere\sectdefaultcl \pard\plain \s60\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f47\fs20\cgrid {\cs44\b0\f1\fs24\cf6\cgrid0 Then: }{
\cs44\b0\i0\f1\fs24\cf6\cgrid0 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\sb100\sa100\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\cs44\i\f1\cf6 
\par }{\cs59\b\i\f1\fs28\cf15 Choir: }{\cs58\f1\fs36\cf15 It is truly meet to bless thee, the Theotokos, ever blessed and most blameless, and Mother of our God. More honorable than the Cherubim, and beyond compare more glorious than the Seraphim, who with
out corruption gavest birth to God the Word, the very Theotokos, thee do we magnify. }{\cs44\i\f1\cf6 Prostration.}{\cs58\f1\fs36\cf15 
\par }{\cs44\i\f1\cf6 
\par Then the reader: 
\par }{\cs56\i\f1 Reader: }{\cs55\f1\fs32 Holy God, Holy Mighty, Holy Immortal, have mercy on us. }{\cs44\i\f1\cf6 (Thrice)}{\cs53\b\fs36  
\par }{\cs55\f1\fs32 Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit, both now and ever, and unto the ages of ages. Amen. 
\par O Most Holy Trinity, have mercy on us. O Lord, blot out our sins. O Master, pardon our iniquities. O Holy One, visit and heal our infirmities for Thy name's sake.}{\cs55\b\f1\fs32  
\par }{\cs55\f1\fs32 Lord have mercy.}{\cs53\b\fs36  }{\cs44\i\f1\cf6 (Thrice)}{\cs53\b\fs36  
\par }{\cs55\f1\fs32 Glory to the Father and to the Son and to the Holy Spirit, both now and ever, and unto the ages of ages. Amen.}{\cs53\b\fs36  
\par }{\cs55\f1\fs32 Our Father, Who art in the Heavens, hallowed by Thy Name. Thy Kingdom come, Thy will be done, on earth as it is in Heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and
 forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors; and lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one.}{\cs53\b\fs36  
\par }{\cs43\b\i\f1 Priest:}{\cs53\b\fs36  For Thine is the Kingdom, and the power, and the glory; of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit, now and ever, and unto the ages of ages.
\par }{\cs56\i\f1 Reader: }{\cs55\f1\fs32 Amen.}{\cs53\b\fs36  
\par }{\cs44\i\f1\cf6 
\par }\pard\plain \s60\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f47\fs20\cgrid {\cs44\b0\f1\fs24\cf6\cgrid0 \sect }\sectd \linex0\sectdefaultcl \pard\plain \s60\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f47\fs20\cgrid {\cs44\b0\f1\fs24\cf6\cgrid0 
If the temple be dedicated to the Lord or to the Theotokos, the Troparion of the temple is said first, then the Troparion of the day (see below), then \ldblquote O God of our Fathers...\rdblquote , etc. 
\par 
\par If the temple be dedicated to a saint, the Troparion of the day is said first, then the Troparion of the temple, then \ldblquote O God of our fathers...\rdblquote , etc.}{\cs44\b0\i0\f1\fs24\cf6\cgrid0  
\par }\pard\plain \s61\qj\fi1440\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\kerning24\cgrid {\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s57\qc\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\cgrid {On Sunday night: 
\par }\pard\plain \s61\qj\fi1440\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\kerning24\cgrid {\f0 
\par }\pard \s61\qj\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright {\cs58\f1\fs36\cf15 Supreme Commanders of the Heavenly Hosts, we unworthy ones implore you that by your supplications ye will encircle us
 with the shelter of the wings of your immaterial glory, and guard us who fall down before you and fervently cry: Deliver us from dangers since ye are the Marshals of the Hosts on high.
\par }\pard \s61\qj\fi1440\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright {\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s57\qc\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\cgrid {On Monday night:
\par }\pard\plain \s61\qj\fi1440\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\kerning24\cgrid {\f0 
\par }\pard \s61\qj\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright {\cs58\f1\fs36\cf15 The memory of righteous is celebrated with hymns of praise, but the Lord\rquote 
s testimony is sufficient for thee, O Forerunner; for thou hast proved to be even more venerable than the prophets since thou wast granted to baptize in the running waters Him Whom they proclaimed. Wherefore, having contested for the 
truth, thou didst rejoice to announce the good tidings even to those in Hades; that God hath appeared in the flesh, taking away the sin of the world and granting us great mercy.}{\f0 
\par }\pard \s61\qj\fi1440\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright {\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s57\qc\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\cgrid {On Tuesday night: 
\par }\pard\plain \s61\qj\fi1440\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\kerning24\cgrid {\f0 
\par }\pard \s61\qj\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright {\cs58\f1\fs36\cf15 Save, O Lord, Thy people, and bless Thine inheritance; grant Thou unto Orthodox Christians victory over enemies; and by the power of Thy Cross do Thou preserve Thy commonwealth.\'b7

\par }\pard \s61\qj\fi1440\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright {\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s60\qc\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f47\fs20\cgrid {\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024 On Wednesday night}{\f0 :
\par }\pard\plain \s61\qj\fi1440\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\kerning24\cgrid {\f0 
\par }\pard \s61\qj\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright {\cs58\f1\fs36\cf15 O holy Apostles, intercede with the merciful God, that He grant unto our souls forgiveness of offenses.}{\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s60\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f47\fs20\cgrid {\f0 
\par }\pard \s60\qj\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright {\cs44\b0\i0\f1\fs24\cf6\cgrid0 And to St. Nicholas, Fourth Tone:}{\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s61\qj\fi1440\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\kerning24\cgrid {\f0 
\par }\pard \s61\qj\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright {\cs58\f1\fs36\cf15 
The truth of things hath revealed thee to thy flock as a rule of faith, an icon of meekness and a teacher of temperance; therefore thou hast achieved the heights by humility, riches by poverty. O Father and Hierarch Nicholas, in
tercede with Christ God that our souls be saved.}{\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s60\qc\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f47\fs20\cgrid {\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s57\qc\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\cgrid {On Thursday night: 
\par }\pard\plain \s61\qj\fi1440\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\kerning24\cgrid {\f0 
\par }\pard \s61\qj\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright {\cs58\f1\fs36\cf15 Save, O Lord, Thy people, and bless Thine inheritance; grant Thou unto Orthodox Christians victory over enemies; and by the power of Thy Cross do Thou preserve Thy commonwealth.}{\f0 

\par }\pard \s61\qj\fi1440\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright {\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s57\qc\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\cgrid {Then, Sunday night through Thursday night (if simple service):
\par }\pard\plain \s61\qj\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\kerning24\cgrid {\f0 
\par }{\cs58\f1\fs36\cf15 O God of our fathers, Who ever dealest by us according to Thy kindness, do not withdraw Thy mercy from us, but through their intercessions guide our life in peace. 
\par 
\par Adorned in the blood of Thy martyrs throughout all the world, as in purple and fine linen, Thy Church, through them, doth cry unto Thee, O Christ God: Send down Thy compassions upon Thy people; grant to Thy community, and to our souls great mercy. 
\par 
\par Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit.
\par 
\par With the saints give rest, O Christ, to the souls of Thy servants, where there is neither sickness, nor sorrow, nor sighing, but life everlasting. 
\par }{\f0 
\par }{\cs58\f1\fs36\cf15 Both now and ever, and unto the ages of ages. Amen. 
\par 
\par Through the intercessions, O Lord, of all the saints and the Theotokos, grant us Thy peace, and have mercy on us, as Thou alone art compassionate.}{\f0  
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s57\qc\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\cgrid {On Friday night: 
\par }\pard\plain \s61\qj\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\kerning24\cgrid {\f0 
\par }{\cs58\f1\fs36\cf15 O Apostles, Martyrs, and Prophets, Venerable and Righteous Ones; ye that have accomplished a good labor and kept the Faith, that have boldness before the Savior; O Good Ones, intercede for us, we pray, that our souls be saved.
\par 
\par Glory to the Father and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit. 
\par 
\par With the saints give rest, O Christ, to the souls of Thy servants, where there is neither sickness, nor sorrow, nor sighing, but life everlasting.
\par 
\par Both now and ever, and unto the ages of ages. Amen. 
\par 
\par To Thee, O Lord, the Planter of creation, the world doth offer the God-bearing martyrs as the first-fruits of nature. By their intercessions preserve Thy Church, Thy commonwealth, in profound peace, through the Theotokos, O Greatly-merciful One.}{\f0  

\par }\pard\plain \s60\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f47\fs20\cgrid {\f0 
\par }\pard \s60\qj\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright {\cs44\b0\f1\fs24\cf6\cgrid0 The Troparion for a church patron saint is not said on Saturdays. On Saturday at Compline, the Troparion and Kontakion of the Resurrection in the occurring tone are read.}{
\cs44\i0\f1\cf6 
\par }\pard\plain \s61\qj\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\kerning24\cgrid {\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s57\qc\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\cgrid {Troparion of the Resurrection. First Tone.
\par }\pard\plain \s60\qc\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f47\fs20\cgrid {\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s61\qj\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\kerning24\cgrid {\cs58\f1\fs36\cf15 
When the stone had been sealed by the Jews, and the soldiers where guarding Thine immaculate Body, Thou didst rise on the third day, O Savior, granting life unto the world. Wherefore, t
he Hosts of the Heavens cried out to Thee, O Life-giver: Glory to Thy Resurrection, O Christ. Glory to Thy kingdom. Glory to Thy dispensation, O only Lover of mankind.
\par }{\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s57\qc\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\cgrid {Kontakion of the Resurrection. First Tone.
\par }\pard\plain \s61\qj\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\kerning24\cgrid {\f0 
\par }{\cs58\f1\fs36\cf15 As God Thou didst arise from the tomb in gl
ory, and Thou didst raise the world together with Thyself. And mortal nature praiseth Thee as God, and death hath vanished. And Adam danceth, O Master, and Eve, now freed from fetters, rejoiceth as she crieth out: Thou art He, O Christ, that grantest unto
 all resurrection.
\par }{\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s57\qc\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\cgrid {Troparion of the Resurrection. Second Tone.
\par }\pard\plain \s61\qj\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\kerning24\cgrid {\f0 
\par }{\cs58\f1\fs36\cf15 When Thou didst descend unto death, O Life Immortal, then didst Thou slay Hades with the lightning of Thy Divinity. And when Thou didst also raise the dead out of the nethermost depths, all th
e Hosts of Heavens cried out: O Lifegiver, Christ our God, glory be to Thee. 
\par }{\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s57\qc\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\cgrid {Kontakion of the Resurrection. Second Tone.
\par }\pard\plain \s61\qj\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\kerning24\cgrid {\f0 
\par }{\cs58\f1\fs36\cf15 Thou didst arise from the tomb, O omnipotent Savior, and Hades was terrified on beholding the wonder; and the dead arose, and creati
on at the sight thereof rejoiceth with Thee. And Adam also is joyful, and world, O my Savior, praiseth Thee for ever.
\par }{\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s57\qc\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\cgrid {Troparion of the Resurrection. Third Tone.
\par }\pard\plain \s61\qj\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\kerning24\cgrid {\f0 
\par }{\cs58\f1\fs36\cf15 Let the heavens be glad; let earthly things rejoice; for the Lord hath wrought might with His
 arm. He hath trampled down death by death; the first-born of the dead hath He become. From the belly of Hades hath He delivered us and hath granted to the world great mercy.
\par }{\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s57\qc\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\cgrid {Kontakion of the Resurrection. Third Tone.
\par }\pard\plain \s61\qj\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\kerning24\cgrid {\f0 
\par }{\cs58\f1\fs36\cf15 Thou didst rise today from the tomb,
 O Merciful One, and didst lead us out of the gates of death. Today Adam danceth and Eve rejoiceth; and together with them both the Prophets and Patriarchs unceasingly praise the divine might of Thine authority.
\par }{\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s57\qc\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\cgrid {Troparion of the Resurrection. Fourth Tone. 
\par }\pard\plain \s61\qj\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\kerning24\cgrid {\f0 
\par }{\cs58\f1\fs36\cf15 
Having learned the joyful proclamation of the Resurrection from the angel, and having cast off the ancestral condemnation, the women disciples of the Lord spake to the apostles exultantly: Death is despoiled and Christ God is risen, granting to the worl
d great mercy. 
\par }{\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s57\qc\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\cgrid {Kontakion of the Resurrection. Fourth Tone. 
\par }\pard\plain \s61\qj\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\kerning24\cgrid {\f0 
\par }{\cs58\f1\fs36\cf15 My Savior and Redeemer hath, as God, raised up the earthborn from the grave and from their fetters, and He hath broken the gates of Hades, and, Master, hath risen on the third day.
\par }{\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s57\qc\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\cgrid {Troparion of the Resurrection. Fifth Tone.
\par }\pard\plain \s61\qj\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\kerning24\cgrid {\f0 
\par }{\cs58\f1\fs36\cf15 Let us, O faithful, praise and worship the Word Who is co-unorignate with the Father and the Spirit, and Who was born of the Virgin for our salvation; for He was pleased to ascend the Cross in the flesh and to endure death,
 and to raise the dead by His glorious Resurrection}{\f0 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s57\qc\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\cgrid {Kontakion of the Resurrection. Fifth Tone. 
\par }\pard\plain \s61\qj\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\kerning24\cgrid {\f0 
\par }{\cs58\f1\fs36\cf15 Unto Hades, O my Savior, didst Thou descend, and having broken its gates as One omnipotent, Thou, as Creator, didst raise up the dead together with Thyself. A
nd Thou didst break the sting of death, and didst deliver Adam from the curse, O Lover of mankind. Wherefore, we all cry unto Thee: Save us, O Lord.}{\f0 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s57\qc\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\cgrid {Troparion of the Resurrection. Sixth Tone. 
\par }\pard\plain \s61\qj\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\kerning24\cgrid {\f0 
\par }{\cs58\f1\fs36\cf15 Angelic Hosts were above Thy tomb, and they that guarded Thee
 became as dead. And Mary stood by the grave seeking Thine immaculate Body. Thou didst despoil Hades and wast not tempted by it. Thou didst meet the Virgin and didst grant us life. O Thou Who didst rise from the dead, O Lord, glory be to Thee.}{\f0 

\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s57\qc\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\cgrid {Kontakion of the Resurrection. Sixth Tone.
\par }\pard\plain \s61\qj\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\kerning24\cgrid {\f0 
\par }{\cs58\f1\fs36\cf15 Having by His life-bestowing hand raised up all the dead out of the dark abysses, Christ God, the Giver of Life, hath bestowed the Resurrection upon the fallen human race; for He is the Savior of all, the Resurrection, and 
the Life, and the God of all.}{\f0 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s57\qc\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\cgrid {Troparion of the Resurrection. Seventh Tone. 
\par }\pard\plain \s61\qj\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\kerning24\cgrid {\f0 
\par }{\cs58\f1\fs36\cf15 Thou didst destroy death by Thy Cross, Thou didst open Paradise to the thief. Thou didst change the lamentation of the Myrrh-bearers, and Thou didst command Thine Apostles to pro
claim that Thou didst arise, O Christ God, and grantest to the world great mercy.}{\f0  
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s57\qc\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\cgrid {Kontakion of the Resurrection. Seventh Tone.
\par }\pard\plain \s61\qj\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\kerning24\cgrid {\f0 
\par }{\cs58\f1\fs36\cf15 No longer will the dominion of death be able to keep men captive; for Christ hath descended, demolishing and destroying the po
wers thereof. Hades is bound; the Prophets rejoice with one voice, saying: A Savior hath come for them that have faith. Come forth, ye faithful, for the Resurrection.
\par }{\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s57\qc\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\cgrid {Troparion of the Resurrection. Eighth Tone.
\par }\pard\plain \s60\qc\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f47\fs20\cgrid {\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s61\qj\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\kerning24\cgrid {\cs58\f1\fs36\cf15 From on high didst Thou descend, O Compassi
onate One; to burial of three days hast Thou submitted that Thou mightest free us from our passions. O our Life and Resurrection, O Lord, glory be to Thee.}{\f0  
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s57\qc\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\cgrid {Kontakion of the Resurrection. Eighth Tone.
\par }\pard\plain \s61\qj\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\kerning24\cgrid {\f0 
\par }{\cs58\f1\fs36\cf15 Having arisen from the tomb, Thou didst raise up the dead and didst resurrect Adam. Eve also danceth at Thy Resurrection, and the ends of the world celebrate Thine arising from the dead, O Greatly-merciful One.}{\f0 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s60\qj\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f47\fs20\cgrid {\cs44\b0\f1\fs24\cf6\cgrid0 IT SHOULD BE KNOWN: that from the Sunday of the Publican and the Pharisee, and during all of the 
Holy Great Lent, on all Saturdays at Compline the Kontakion of the Resurrection is not read, but rather the one from the Triodion (except the fifth week of Lent), as also during the Holy Pentecost season on all days the Kontakion from the Pentecostarion i
s
 read, until the Sunday of All Saints. If there occur on Sunday a feast of the Lord, only the Kontakion of the feast is read. But if there be a feast of the Theotokos, or one of the saints that have a Polyeleos, or a great doxology, the Kontakion of the R
esurrection is read, but that of the occurring feast or saint is omitted.}{\cs44\i0\f1\cf6 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\sb100\sa100\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\cs44\i\f1\cf6 
\par }{\cs56\i\f1 Reader:}{\cs55\f1\fs32  Lord have mercy.}{\cs53\b\fs36  }{\cs44\i\f1\cf6 (Forty Times)}{\cs53\b\fs36  
\par }{\cs55\f1\fs32 Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit, both now and ever, and unto the ages of ages. Amen.}{\cs53\b\fs36  
\par }{\cs55\f1\fs32 More honorable than the Cherubim, and beyond compare more glorious than the Seraphim; who without corruption gavest birth to God the Word, the very Theotokos, thee do we magnify.}{\cs53\b\fs36  
\par }{\cs55\f1\fs32 In the name of the Lord, father }{\cs44\i\f1\cf6 (master) }{\cs55\f1\fs32 bless.}{\cs53\b\fs36 
\par }{\cs43\b\i\f1 Priest:}{\cs53\b\fs36  Through the prayers of our holy fathers, O Lord Jesus Christ our God, have mercy on us. 
\par }{\cs56\i\f1 Reader: }{\cs55\f1\fs32 Amen. 
\par }\pard\plain \s57\qc\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\cgrid {\cs53\b0\f0\fs36 \sect }\sectd \linex0\sectdefaultcl \pard\plain \s57\qc\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\cgrid {\cs53\b0\f0\fs36 
The Supplicatory Prayer to the Most Holy Theotokos, of Paul the monk of the Monastery of Evergetides, ie. Of the Benefactress:
\par }\pard\plain \qj\sb100\sa100\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\cs55\f1\fs32 O undefiled, untainted, uncorrupted, most pure, chaste Virgin, Thou Brid
e of God and Sovereign Lady, who didst unite the Word of God to mankind through thy most glorious birth giving, and hast linked the apostate nature of our race with the heavenly; who art the only hope of the hopeless, and the helper of the struggling, the
 
ever-ready protection of them that hasten unto thee, and the refuge of all Christians: Do not shrink with loathing from me a sinner, defiled, who with polluted thoughts, words, and deeds have made myself utterly unprofitable, and through slothfulness of m
i
nd have become a slave to the pleasures of life. But as the Mother of God Who loveth mankind, show thy love for mankind and mercifully have compassion upon me a sinner and prodigal, and accept my supplication, which is offered to thee out of my defiled mo
u
th; and making use of thy motherly boldness, entreat thy Son and our Master and Lord that He may be pleased to open for me the bowels of His loving kindness and graciousness to mankind, and, disregarding my numberless offenses, will turn me back to repent
a
nce, and show me to be a tried worker of His precepts. And be thou ever present unto me as merciful, compassionate and well disposed; in the present life be thou a fervent intercessor and helper, repelling the assaults of adversaries and guiding me to sal
v
ation, and at the time of my departure taking care of my miserable soul, and driving far away from it the dark countenances of the evil demons; lastly, at the dreadful day of judgment delivering me from torment eternal and showing me to be an heir of the 
i
neffable glory of thy Son and our God; all of which may I attain, O my Sovereign Lady, most holy Theotokos, in virtue of thine intercession and protection, through the grace and love to mankind of thine only begotten Son, our Lord and God and Savior, Jesu
s Christ, to Whom is due all glory, honor and worship, together with His unoriginate Father, and His Most Holy and good and life creating Spirit, now and ever, and unto ages of ages. Amen.}{\cs55\b\f1\fs32  
\par }{\cs53\b\fs36 
\par }\pard\plain \s57\qc\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\cgrid {\cs53\b0\f0\fs36 Another Prayer; to our Lord Jesus Christ, by Antiochus the monk 
\par }\pard\plain \sb100\sa100\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \qj\sb100\sa100\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\cs55\f1\fs32 
And grant unto us, O Master, in the coming sleep, rest for body and soul, and preserve us from the gloomy slumber of sin, and from every dark and nocturnal sensuality. Subdue the impulses of passions, extinguish the fiery darts of the evil one that are cu
n
ningly hurled against us, assuage the rebellions of our flesh, and every earthly and fleshly subtlety of ours lull to sleep. And grant unto us, O God, a watchful mind, chaste thought, a sober heart, a sleep gentle and free from every satanic illusion. Rai
s
e us up at the time of prayer firmly grounded in Thy judgments. All the night long grant us a doxology, that we may hymn and bless and glorify Thy most honorable and majestic name: of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit, now and ever, and u
nto the ages of ages. Amen. 
\par 
\par }{\cs44\i\f1\cf6 At this point, according the to usage of Holy Trinity Monastery, the Prayers approaching sleep are said.
\par }\pard\plain \s57\qc\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\cgrid {Prayer I, of St. Macarius the Great.}{\cs55  
\par }\pard\plain \s61\qj\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\kerning24\cgrid {\cs55\f1\fs32 
\par O Eternal God and King of all creation, Who hast vouchsafed me to arrive at this ho
ur, forgive me the sins that I have committed this day in deed, word, and thought; and cleanse, O Lord, my lowly soul of all impurity of flesh and spirit, and grant me, O Lord, to pass the sleep of this night in peace; that, rising from my lowly bed, I ma
y
 please Thy most holy name all the days of my life, and thwart the enemies, fleshly and bodiless, that war against me. And deliver me, O Lord, from vain thoughts and evil desires which defile me. For Thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory: of 
the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit, now, and ever, and unto the ages of ages. Amen.
\par }\pard\plain \s60\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f47\fs20\cgrid {\cs55\f1\fs32 
\par }\pard\plain \s57\qc\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\cgrid {Prayer II, of St. Antiochus:}{\cs55 
\par }\pard\plain \s61\qj\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\kerning24\cgrid {\cs55\f1\fs32 
\par O Ruler of all, Word of the Father, O Jesus Christ, Thou Who art perfect: for the sake of the plenitude of Thy mercy, never de
part from me, but always remain in me, Thy servant. O Jesus, Good Shepherd of Thy sheep, deliver me not over to the sedition of the serpent, and leave me not to the will of Satan, for the seed of corruption is in me. But do Thou, O Lord, worshipful God, H
o
ly King, Jesus Christ, as I sleep, guard me by the Unwaning Light, Thy Holy Spirit, by Whom Thou didst sanctify Thy disciples. O Lord, grant me, thine unworthy servant, Thy salvation upon my bed. Enlighten my mind with the light of understanding of Thy Ho
l
y Gospel; my soul, with the love of Thy Cross; my heart, with the purity of Thy word; my body, with Thy passionless passion. Keep my thoughts in Thy humility, and raise me up at the proper time for Thy glorification. For most glorified art Thou together w
ith Thine unoriginate Father, and the Most Holy Spirit, unto the ages. Amen.
\par }\pard\plain \s60\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f47\fs20\cgrid {\cs55\f1\fs32 
\par }\pard\plain \s57\qc\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\cgrid {Prayer III, to the Most Holy Spirit:}{\cs55 
\par }\pard\plain \s61\qj\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\kerning24\cgrid {\cs55\f1\fs32 
\par O Lord, Heavenly King, Comforter, Spirit of Truth, show compassion and have mercy on me, Thy sinful servant, and loose me from mine unworthin
ess, and forgive all wherein I have sinned against Thee today as a man, and not only as a man, but even worse than a beast, my sins voluntary and involuntary, known and unknown, whether from youth, and from evil suggestion, or whether from brazenness and 
d
espondency. If I have sworn by Thy name, or blasphemed it in my thoughts; or grieved anyone, or have become angry about anything; or have lied, or slept needlessly, or if a beggar hath come to me and I disdained him; or if I have grieved my brother, or ha
v
e quarreled, or have condemned anyone; or if I have been boastful, or prideful, or angry; if, as I stood at prayer, my mind hath been distracted by the wiles of this world, or by thoughts of depravity; if I have overeaten, or have drunk excessively, or la
u
ghed frivolously; if I have thought evil, or have seen the beauty of another and been wounded thereby in my heart; if I have said improper things, or derided my brother's sin when mine own sins are countless; if I have been neglectful of prayer, or have d
o
ne some other wrong that I cannot remember, for all of this and more than this have I done: have mercy, O Master my Creator, on me Thy downcast and unworthy servant, and loose me, and remit, and forgive me, for Thou art good and the Lover of mankind, so t
hat, lustful, sinful, and wretched as I am, I may lie down and sleep and rest in peace. And I shall worship, and hymn, and glorify Thy most honorable name, together with the Father and His Only-begotten Son, now and ever, and unto the ages. Amen.
\par }\pard\plain \s60\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\tx2520\adjustright \b\i\f47\fs20\cgrid {\cs55\f1\fs32 
\par }\pard\plain \s57\qc\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\cgrid {Prayer IV, of St. Macarius the Great}{\cs55 
\par }\pard\plain \s61\qj\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\kerning24\cgrid {\cs55\f1\fs32 
\par What shall I offer Thee, or what shall I give Thee, O greatly-gifted, immortal King, O compassionate Lord Who lovest mankind? For though I have been slothful in pleasing Thee, and have done nothing good, Thou hast led me to the
 close of this day that is past, establishing the conversion and salvation of my soul. Be merciful to me a sinner, bereft of every good deed, raise up my fallen soul which hath become defiled by countless sins, and take away from me every evil thought of 
t
his visible life. Forgive my sins, O Only Sinless One, in which I have sinned against Thee this day, known or unknown, in word, and deed, and thought and in all my senses. Do Thou Thyself protect and guard me from every opposing circumstance, by Thy Divin
e
 authority and power and inexpressible love for mankind. Blot out, O God, blot out the multitude of my sins. Be pleased, O Lord, to deliver me from the net of the Evil One, and save my passionate soul, and overshadow me with the light of Thy countenance w
h
en Thou shalt come in glory; and cause me, uncondemned now, to sleep a dreamless sleep, and keep Thy servant untroubled by thoughts, and drive away from me all satanic deeds; and enlighten for me the eyes of my heart with understanding, lest I sleep unto 
d
eath. And send me an angel of peace, a guardian and guide of my soul and body, that he may deliver me from mine enemies; that, rising from my bed, I may offer Thee prayers of thanksgiving. Yea, O Lord, hearken unto me, Thy sinful and wretched servant, in 
c
onfession and conscience; grant me, when I arise, to be instructed by Thy sayings; and through Thine angels cause demonic despondency to be driven far from me: that I may bless Thy holy name, and glorify and extol the most pure Theotokos Mary, whom Thou h
a
st given to us sinners as a protectress, and accept her who prayeth for us. For I know that she exemplifieth Thy love for mankind and prayeth for us without ceasing. Through her protection, and the sign of the precious Cross, and for the sake of all Thy s
aints, preserve my wretched soul, O Jesus Christ our God: for holy art Thou, and most glorious for ever. Amen.
\par }\pard\plain \s60\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f47\fs20\cgrid {\cs55\f1\fs32 
\par }\pard\plain \s57\qc\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\cgrid {Prayer V}{\cs55 
\par }\pard\plain \s61\qj\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\kerning24\cgrid {\cs55\f1\fs32 
\par O Lord our God, as Thou art good and the Lover of mankind, forgive me wherein I have sinned today in word, deed, and thought. Grant me 
peaceful and undisturbed sleep; send Thy guardian angel to protect and keep me from evil. For Thou art the Guardian of our souls and bodies, and unto Thee do we send up glory: to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit, now and ever, and unto t
he ages of ages. Amen. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s57\qc\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\cgrid {Prayer VI}{\cs55 
\par }\pard\plain \s61\qj\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\kerning24\cgrid {\cs55\f1\fs32 
\par O Lord our God, in Whom we believe and Whose Name we invoke above every name, grant us, as we go to sleep, relaxation of soul and body, and keep us from all dreams, and dark pleasures; stop the onslaught of the passions a
nd quench the burnings that arise in the flesh. Grant us to live chastely in deed and word, that we may obtain a virtuous life, and not fall away from Thy promised blessings; for blessed art Thou for ever. Amen.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s57\qc\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\cgrid {Prayer VII, of St. John Chrysostom, according to the number of hours of day and night:}{\cs55  
\par }\pard\plain \s60\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f47\fs20\cgrid {\cs55\f1\fs32 
\par }\pard\plain \s61\qj\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\kerning24\cgrid {\cs55\f1\fs32 O Lord, deprive me not of Thy heavenly good things. 
\par O Lord, deliver me from the eternal torments. 
\par O Lord, if I have sinned in mind or thought, in word or deed, forgive me. 
\par O Lord, deliver me from all ignorance, forgetfulness, faint-heartedness, and stony insensibility. 
\par O Lord, deliver me from every temptation. 
\par O Lord, enlighten my heart which evil desire hath darkened. 
\par O Lord, as a man I have sinned, but do Thou, as the compassionate God, have mercy on me, seeing the infirmity of my soul. 
\par O Lord, send Thy grace to my help, that I may glorify Thy holy name. 
\par O Lord Jesus Christ, write me Thy servant in the Book of Life, and grant me a good end. 
\par O Lord my God, even though I have done nothing good in Thy sight, yet grant me by Thy grace to make a good beginning. 
\par O Lord, sprinkle into my heart the dew of Thy grace. 
\par O Lord of heaven and earth, remember me Thy sinful servant, shameful and unclean, in Thy kingdom. Amen.
\par 
\par O Lord, accept me in penitence. 
\par O Lord, forsake me not. O Lord, lead me not into temptation. 
\par O Lord, grant me good thoughts. 
\par O Lord, grant me tears, and remembrance of death, and compunction. 
\par O Lord, grant me the thought of confessing my sins. 
\par O Lord, grant me humility, chastity, and obedience. 
\par O Lord, grant me patience, courage, and meekness. 
\par O Lord, implant in me the root of good, Thy fear in my heart. 
\par O Lord, vouchsafe me to love Thee with all my soul and thoughts, and in all things to do Thy will. 
\par O Lord, protect me from evil men, and demons, and passions, and from every other unseemly thing. 
\par O Lord, Thou knowest that Thou doest as Thou wilt: Thy will be done also in me a sinner; for blessed art Thou unto the ages. Amen.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s57\qc\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\cgrid {\cs55 Prayer VIII, to our Lord Jesus }{Christ
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s61\qj\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\kerning24\cgrid {\cs55\f1\fs32 O Lord Jesus Christ, So
n of God, for the sake of Thy most honorable Mother, and Thy bodiless angels, Thy Prophet and Forerunner and Baptist, the God-inspired apostles, the radiant and victorious martyrs, the holy and God-bearing fathers, and through the intercessions of all the
 
saints, deliver me from the besetting presence of the demons. Yea, my Lord and Creator, Who desirest not the death of the sinner, but rather that he be converted and live, grant conversion also to me, wretched and unworthy; rescue me from the mouth of the
 
pernicious serpent, who is yawning to devour me and take me down to Hades alive. Yea, my Lord, my Comfort, Who for my miserable sake wast clothed in corruptible flesh, draw me out of misery, and grant comfort to my miserable soul. Implant in my heart to f
ulfill Thy commandments, and to forsake evil deeds, and to obtain Thy blessings; for in Thee, O Lord, have I hoped, save me.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s57\qc\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\cgrid {Prayer IX, to the Most Holy Theotokos}{\cs55 
\par }\pard\plain \s61\qj\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\kerning24\cgrid {\cs55\f1\fs32 
\par O good Mother of the Good King, most pure and blessed Theotokos Mary, do thou pour out the m
ercy of thy Son and our God upon my passionate soul, and by thine intercessions guide me unto good works, that I may pass the remaining time of my life without blemish, and attain paradise through thee, O Virgin Theotokos, who alone art pure and blessed.

\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s57\qc\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\cgrid {Prayer X, to the Holy Guardian Angel}{\cs55 
\par }\pard\plain \s60\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f47\fs20\cgrid {\cs55\f1\fs32 
\par }\pard\plain \s61\qj\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\kerning24\cgrid {\cs55\f1\fs32 
O Angel of Christ, my holy guardian and protector of my soul and body, forgive me all wherein I have sinned this day, and deliver me from all opposing evil of mine enemy, lest I anger my God by any sin. Pray for me, a 
sinful and unworthy servant, that thou mayest show me forth worthy of the kindness and mercy of the All-holy Trinity, and of the Mother of my Lord Jesus Christ, and of all the saints. Amen.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s57\qc\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\cgrid {Then, the Kontakion of the Theotokos:}{\cs55 
\par }\pard\plain \s61\qj\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\kerning24\cgrid {\cs55\f1\fs32 
\par To Thee the Champion Leade
r, we thy servants dedicate a feast of victory and of thanksgiving, as ones rescued out of sufferings, O Theotokos; but as thou art one with might which is invincible, from all dangers that can be, do thou deliver us, that we may cry to thee: Rejoice, tho
u Bride unwedded!
\par 
\par Most glorious Ever-Virgin, Mother of Christ God, present our prayer to thy Son and our God, that through thee our souls may be saved
\par 
\par All my hope I place in thee, O Mother of God: keep me under thy protection.
\par 
\par O Virgin Theotokos, disdain not me a sinner, needing thy help and thy protection, and have mercy on me, for my soul hath hoped in thee.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s57\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\cgrid {\cs44\b0\fs24\lang1033\cgrid0 Then the prayer of St. Joannicius:}{\cs44\i0 
\par }\pard\plain \s61\qj\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\kerning24\cgrid {\cs55\f1\fs32 
\par My hope is the Father, my refuge is the Son, my protection is the Holy Spirit: O Holy Trinity, glory to Thee.}{\f0 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\sb100\sa100\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\cs44\i\f1\cf6 Here, the Order of Small Compline is resumed: 
\par }{\cs43\b\i\f1 Priest:}{\cs53\b\fs36  Glory to Thee, O God, our hope, glory to Thee. 
\par }{\cs59\b\i\f1\fs28\cf15 Choir:}{\cs53\b\fs36  }{\cs58\f1\fs36\cf15 Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit, both now and ever, and unto the ages of ages. Amen. Lord, have mercy.}{\cs53\b\fs36  }{\cs44\i\f1\cf6 (Thrice) }{
\cs58\f1\fs36\cf15 Father, bless.}{\cs53\b\fs36 
\par }{\cs44\i\f1\cf6 The priest saith aloud, while we prostrate ourselves to the earth (except on Fridays, when the lesser dismissal is used:) 
\par }{\cs43\b\i\f1 Priest:}{\cs53\b\fs36  }{\cs47\b\fs36 May Christ our God, through the intercessions of His most pure Mother, }{\cs44\i\f1\cf6 (the patron saint of the temple),}{\cs47\b\fs36  and of all 
the saints, have mercy on us and save us, for He is good and the Lover of mankind. }{\cs59\b\i\f1\fs28\cf15 Choir:}{\cs53\b\fs36  }{\cs58\f1\fs36\cf15 Amen.
\par }\pard\plain \s57\qc\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\cgrid {\cs58\fs36\cf15 \sect }\sectd \linex0\sectdefaultcl \pard\plain \s57\qc\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\cgrid {\cs58\fs36\cf15 The Rite of Forgiveness 
\par }\pard\plain \sb100\sa100\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \qj\sb100\sa100\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\cs44\i\f1\cf6 Then, making a prostration, the priest saith to the brethren (sisters, congregation):
\par }{\cs43\b\i\f1 Priest:}{\cs53\b\fs36  Bless, }{\cs44\i\f1\cf6 (holy master and) }{\cs53\b\fs36 holy fathers }{\cs44\i\f1\cf6 (mothers)}{\cs53\b\fs36 
 and brethren, and forgive me a sinner, all wherein I have sinned this day in deed, word, and through all my senses. 
\par }{\cs44\i\f1\cf6 And the brethren (sisters) (congregation) reply: 
\par }{\cs53\b\fs36 May God forgive and have mercy on thee, holy father. 
\par }{\cs44\i\f1\cf6 And they make a prostration, asking this forgiveness:}{\cs53\b\fs36  
\par Bless me, holy father, and forgive all wherein I have sinned this day in deed, word, and thought, and in all my senses, and pray for me a sinner. 
\par }{\cs43\b\i\f1 Priest:}{\cs53\b\fs36  Through His grace may God forgive and have mercy on us all. 
\par }{\cs44\i\f1\cf6 
\par And he saith this Ectenia:}{\cs53\b\fs36  
\par }{\cs43\b\i\f1 Priest: }{\cs53\b\fs36 
Let us pray for the Orthodox episcopate of the Russian Church; for our lord the Very Most Reverend Metropolitan N., First Hierarch of the Russian Church Abroad; for our lord the Most Reverend (Archbishop or Bishop N., whose dioces
e it is) and all our brethren in Christ. 
\par }{\cs59\b\i\f1\fs28\cf15 Choir:}{\cs53\b\fs36  }{\cs58\f1\fs36\cf15 Lord, have mercy.}{\cs53\b\fs36  }{\cs44\b\i\f1\cf6 (}{\cs44\i\f1\cf6 Quietly, slowly, and repeatedly, until the petitions are finished )
\par }{\cs43\b\i\f1 Priest:}{\cs53\b\fs36  For the suffering Russian land and its Orthodox people both in the homeland and in the diaspora, and for their salvation; for this land, its authorities and armed forces, and for every Christian land. 
\par 
\par For them that hate us and them that love us. 
\par For them that are kind to us and them that serve us. 
\par For them that have asked us unworthy ones to pray for them. 
\par For the deliverance of the imprisoned. 
\par For our fathers and brethren that have passed on before us. 
\par For those sailing upon the sea. 
\par For those bedridden in infirmities. 
\par Let us pray for the abundance of the fruits of the earth. 
\par And for every Orthodox Christian soul. 
\par Let us bless pious kings (rulers), Orthodox hierarchs, and the founders of this holy habitation. 
\par Our parents, and all that have passed on before us, our fathers, brethren, and the Orthodox here and everywhere laid to rest. 
\par Let us say also for ourselves. 
\par Choir: Lord, have mercy. }{\cs44\i\f1\cf6 Thrice 
\par }{\cs43\b\i\f1 Priest:}{\cs53\b\fs36  For the sake of the intercessions of Thy most pure Mother of }{\cs44\i\f1\cf6 (the patron saint of the temple), }{\cs53\b\fs36 and all the saints, O Lord Jesus Christ our God, have mercy on us. 
\par }{\cs59\b\i\f1\fs28\cf15 Choir:}{\cs53\b\fs36  }{\cs58\f1\fs36\cf15 Amen.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s57\qj\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f1\fs32\cf6\lang1024\cgrid {\cs44\b0\fs24\lang1033\cgrid0 And we venerate the holy icons and receive a blessing from the priest (superior) (bishop).}{\cs44\i0 
\par }}