{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f34\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial Unicode MS;}{\f36\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}@Arial Unicode MS;}{\f37\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}
{\f38\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f40\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f41\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f42\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}
{\f43\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f44\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f45\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f47\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}
{\f48\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}{\f50\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f51\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}{\f52\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial (Hebrew);}{\f53\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial (Arabic);}
{\f54\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}{\f55\fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Arial (Vietnamese);}{\f379\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Western;}{\f377\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS CE;}
{\f378\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Cyr;}{\f380\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Greek;}{\f381\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Tur;}{\f382\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Hebrew);}
{\f383\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Arabic);}{\f384\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Baltic;}{\f385\fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Vietnamese);}{\f386\fswiss\fcharset222\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Thai);}
{\f399\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 @Arial Unicode MS Western;}{\f397\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 @Arial Unicode MS CE;}{\f398\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 @Arial Unicode MS Cyr;}{\f400\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 @Arial Unicode MS Greek;}
{\f401\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 @Arial Unicode MS Tur;}{\f402\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 @Arial Unicode MS (Hebrew);}{\f403\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 @Arial Unicode MS (Arabic);}{\f404\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 @Arial Unicode MS Baltic;}
{\f405\fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 @Arial Unicode MS (Vietnamese);}{\f406\fswiss\fcharset222\fprq2 @Arial Unicode MS (Thai);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;
\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}
{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\sb240\sa120\keepn\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs28\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\f1\hich\af1\dbch\af34\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 Heading;}{\s16\ql \li0\ri0\sa120\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext16 Body Text;}{\s17\ql \li0\ri0\sa120\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon16 \snext17 List;}{
\s18\ql \li0\ri0\sb120\sa120\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext18 \ssemihidden caption;}{\s19\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext19 Index;}{\*\cs20 \additive \ul\cf9\lang0\langfe255\langfenp255 Internet link;}}{\*\latentstyles\lsdstimax156\lsdlockeddef0}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid28324\rsid2238501\rsid3409083
\rsid6321800\rsid7868998\rsid8992438\rsid11756015\rsid13975599}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 11.0.5604;}{\info{\title 20th Week After Pentecost \'96 Monday }{\author User}{\operator User}{\creatim\yr2008\mo10\dy28\hr12\min35}
{\revtim\yr2008\mo10\dy28\hr20\min37}{\version6}{\edmins483}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords491}{\nofchars2805}{\nofcharsws3290}{\vern24689}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120
\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind1\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl\rsidroot7868998 \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2
\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\ul\cf1\insrsid8992438 20}{\b\ul\cf1\up10\insrsid8992438 th}{\b\ul\cf1\insrsid8992438 
 Week After Pentecost \endash  }{\b\ul\cf1\insrsid28324 Tuesday}{\cf1\insrsid8992438  
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\cf1\insrsid8992438 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\cf1\insrsid8992438 
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\cf1\insrsid8992438 Today\rquote s readings, followed by a few small pastoral and personal thoughts. 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\cf1\insrsid8992438 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid28324 {\b\ul\cf1\insrsid28324\charrsid28324 Philippians 2:17-23}{\cf1\insrsid28324  }{\cf1\insrsid28324 
Yea, and if I be offered upon the sacrifice and service of your faith, I joy, and rejoice with you all. 18 For the same cause also do ye joy, and rejoice with me. 19 But I trust in the Lord Jesus to send Timotheus shortly unto 
you, that I also may be of good comfort, when I know your state. 20 For I have no man likeminded, who will naturally care for your state. 21 For all seek their own, not the things which are Jesus Christ's. 22 But ye know the proof of him, that, as a son w
ith the father, he hath served with me in the gospel. 23 Him therefore I hope to send presently, so soon as I shall see how it will go with me.
\par 
\par }{\b\ul\cf1\insrsid28324\charrsid28324 Luke 6:37-45}{\cf1\insrsid28324  }{\cf1\insrsid28324 Judge not, and ye shall not be judged: condemn not, and ye shall not be condemned: forgive
, and ye shall be forgiven: 38 Give, and it shall be given unto you; good measure, pressed down, and shaken together, and running over, shall men give into your bosom. For with the same measure that ye mete withal it shall be measured to you again. 39 And
 
he spake a parable unto them, Can the blind lead the blind? shall they not both fall into the ditch? 40 The disciple is not above his master: but every one that is perfect shall be as his master. 41 And why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy brother's
 
eye, but perceivest not the beam that is in thine own eye? 42 Either how canst thou say to thy brother, Brother, let me pull out the mote that is in thine eye, when thou thyself beholdest not the beam that is in thine own eye? Thou hypocrite, cast out fir
s
t the beam out of thine own eye, and then shalt thou see clearly to pull out the mote that is in thy brother's eye. 43 For a good tree bringeth not forth corrupt fruit; neither doth a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit. 44 For every tree is known by his 
o
wn fruit. For of thorns men do not gather figs, nor of a bramble bush gather they grapes. 45 A good man out of the good treasure of his heart bringeth forth that which is good; and an evil man out of the evil treasure of his heart bringeth forth that whic
h is evil: for of the abundance of the heart his mouth speaketh.}{\cf1\insrsid28324 
\par 
\par }{\b\cf1\insrsid28324\charrsid28324 Luke 6:}{\b\cf1\insrsid28324\charrsid28324 38 Give, and it shall be given unto you; good measure, pressed down, and shaken together, and running over, shall men give into your bosom.}{\b\cf1\insrsid3409083  }{
\b\cf1\insrsid3409083\charrsid3409083 For with the same measure that ye mete withal it shall be measured to you again.}{\b\cf1\insrsid28324\charrsid3409083 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid28324\charrsid3409083 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid28324 This describes the measuring of flour. If it is pressed down and shaken, a larger amount is given, in addition \'93running over\'94 indicates a heaping measure. }{\cf1\insrsid3409083 This large amount is our Lord\rquote 
s response to our generosity. }{\cf1\insrsid13975599  }{\cf1\insrsid3409083 The words \'93with the same measure\'94 do not indicate the same \'93amount\'94. Measure here indicates intent, and effort. If we do good, then the Lord will do good unto us. Our 
return will be greater, because the Lord is greater.
\par 
\par The term \'93running over\'94 can also apply to our judgment of others. If we do good, our small }{\cf1\insrsid6321800 amount of good will returns}{\cf1\insrsid3409083  to us a thousand fold; if we judge others, our judgment returns upon us a 
thousand fold. In both cases the same \'93measure}{\cf1\insrsid6321800 \'94 was}{\cf1\insrsid3409083  used in our actions towards others and the Lord\rquote s response, but the amount \'93returned\'94 by the Lord was greater.  }{\cf1\insrsid28324 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid3409083 
\par See the Commentary on this passage by Blessed Theophylact. 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid3409083 
\par }}