{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f38\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}
{\f39\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f41\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f42\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f43\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}
{\f44\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f45\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f46\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\sb240\sa60\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs32\lang1033\langfe1033\kerning28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{
\s2\ql \li0\ri0\sb240\sa60\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\i\fs28\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{\s3\ql \li0\ri0\sb240\sa60\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\scaps\fs28\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 3;}{\s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 4;}{
\s5\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel4\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 5;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs28\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Body Text;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid1180323\rsid13896119}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.2627;}{\info{\title Canon 1, tone 1}{\author Joe Stokes}{\operator Priest Seraphim Holland}
{\creatim\yr2003\mo1\dy5\hr22\min38}{\revtim\yr2003\mo1\dy5\hr22\min38}{\version2}{\edmins1}{\nofpages3}{\nofwords827}{\nofchars4717}{\*\company  }{\nofcharsws5533}{\vern16437}}\margl1152\margr1152\margt1152\margb900 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind1\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl\rsidroot1180323 \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\headery576\footery576\cols2\colno1\colw4608\colsr720\colno2\colw4608\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs28\insrsid1180323 Canon 1, tone 1
\par 
\par Ode I:}{\fs28\insrsid1180323  Christ is born, give ye glory! Christ cometh from heaven, meet ye Him! Christ is on earth, be ye exalted! O all the earth, sing ye unto the Lord, and chant with gladness, ye people, for He hath been glorified!
\par 
\par 
\par \line }{\b\fs28\insrsid1180323 Ode III:}{\fs28\insrsid1180323  To Christ God, the Son Who was be
gotten of the Father without corruption before time began, and in latter times without seed became incarnate of the Virgin, let us cry aloud: O Lord Who liftest up our horn, holy art Thou!
\par 
\par }{\b\fs28\insrsid1180323 Ode IV:}{\fs28\insrsid1180323  A rod from the root of Jesse and blossom thereof, O Christ
, Thou didst spring forth from the Virgin; from the mountain overshadowed and densely wooded hast Thou come, incarnate of her who knew not man, O Thou praised and immaterial God. Glory to Thy power, O Lord!
\par 
\par }{\b\fs28\insrsid1180323 Ode V:}{\fs28\insrsid1180323  As God of peace and Father of compassion,
 Thou didst send Thine Angel of Great Counsel, Who granteth us peace. Therefore, guided to the light of knowledge divine, and waking at dawn out of the night, we glorify Thee, Who lovest mankind.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs28\insrsid1180323 \column Canon 2, tone 1
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs28\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\insrsid1180323 Ode I:}{\insrsid1180323  Of old, the Master, working a wond
er, saved the people of Israel, making the waves of the sea into dry land; and, born of His own will of the Virgin, He setteth before us a path whereby we may travel to heaven. Him do we glorify as equal in essence to the Father and to men.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs28\insrsid1180323 
\par }{\b\fs28\insrsid1180323 Ode III:}{\fs28\insrsid1180323  Look 
down upon the hymns of Thy servants, O Benefactor, casting down the vaunted pride of the enemy. O Thou Who seest all things, raise up far above sin those who hymn Thee, established immovably upon the foundation of the Faith, O Good One.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs28\insrsid1180323 Ode IV:}{\fs28\insrsid1180323  Hymning of
 old the restoration of the the human race, the Prophet Habbakuk, ineffably vouchsafed to behold an image, proclaimed prophetically: A little Babe is come forth from the mountain of the Virgin, unto the restoration of men, O Word!
\par 
\par 
\par }{\b\fs28\insrsid1180323 Ode V:}{\fs28\insrsid1180323  Out of the gloom
y night of the works of deception, come Thou, O Christ, unto us who now keep vigil in hymnody addressed to Thee as our Benefactor, Who granteth us an easy path, travelling whereon we may attain unto glory.
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\insrsid1180323 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs28\insrsid1180323 \page }{\b\fs28\insrsid1180323 Ode VI:}{\fs28\insrsid1180323  The sea monster thrust forth, like a ba
be from the womb, Jonah whom it had swallowed; and the Word, Who dwelt within the Virgin and took flesh of her, issued forth, preserving her incorrupt. He kept her who gave Him birth unharmed, for He Himself is not subject to corruption.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs28\insrsid1180323 Ode VII:}{\fs28\insrsid1180323  The children raised together in piety, disdaining the ungodly command, feared not the threat of fire, but, standing in the midst of the flame, they chanted: O God or our fathers, blessed art Thou!

\par 
\par 
\par We praise, we bless, we worship the Lord, hymning and supremely exalting Him unto all ages!
\par 
\par }{\b\fs28\insrsid1180323 Ode VIII:}{\fs28\insrsid1180323  
The dew-bearing furnace showed forth the image of a supernatural wonder; for it burned not the youths whom it had received, just as the fire of the Godhead burned not the Virgin, whose womb it had entered. Wherefore, chanting, let us sing: Let all creatio
n bless the Lord and exalt Him supremely for all ages!
\par 
\par \column }{\b\fs28\insrsid1180323 Ode VI:}{\fs28\insrsid1180323 
 Engulfed in the uttermost dephs of the sea, Jonah prayed: Come Thou and still the tempest! And I, beset by the dark of the tormentor, cry aloud unto Christ: O Destroyer of evils, haste Thou quickly unto my slothfulness!
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }{\b\fs28\insrsid1180323 Ode VII:}{\fs28\insrsid1180323 
 Captivated by the love of the King of all, the youths despised the godless threats of the tyrant raging uncontrollably; and when the great fire submitted to them, they said to the Master: Blessed art Thou forever!
\par 
\par We praise, we bless, we worship the Lord, hymning and supremely exalting Him unto all ages!
\par 
\par }{\b\fs28\insrsid1180323 Ode VIII:}{\fs28\insrsid1180323  The children of the Old Covenant who were not consumed by the fire prefigure the unburnt womb of the Maiden which, though sealed, giveth birth in manner t
ranscending nature. And grace, working both of these as a single wonder, doth move the people to hymnody.
\par 
\par }{\insrsid1180323 
\par \page }{\b\fs28\insrsid1180323 Ode IX: 
\par }{\i\fs28\insrsid1180323 Refrain: }{\fs28\insrsid1180323 Magnify, O my soul, the all-pure Virgin Theotokos, who is more honorable and more glorious than the armies on high!
\par 
\par }{\i\fs28\insrsid1180323 Irmos: }{\fs28\insrsid1180323 A str
ange and most glorious mystery do I behold: the cave is heaven; the Virgin, the throne of the cherubim; the manger, the place werein lay Christ God, Whom naught can contain, Whom praising, we magnify.
\par 
\par }{\i\fs28\insrsid1180323 Refrain: }{\fs28\insrsid1180323 Magnify, O my soul, God Who was born in the flesh of the Virgin.
\par }{\i\fs28\insrsid1180323 Refrain: }{\fs28\insrsid1180323 Magnify, O my soul, the King Who was born in the cave
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s5\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel4\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs28\insrsid1180323 [Troparion]}{\i0\fs28\insrsid1180323 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs28\insrsid1180323 
\par }{\i\fs28\insrsid1180323 Refrain: }{\fs28\insrsid1180323 Magnify, O my soul, God Who is worshipped by the magi.
\par }{\i\fs28\insrsid1180323 Refrain: }{\fs28\insrsid1180323 Magnify, O my soul, Him Who was proclaimed to the magi by the star.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s5\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel4\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs28\insrsid1180323 [Troparion]}{\i0\fs28\insrsid1180323 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs28\insrsid1180323 
\par }{\i\fs28\insrsid1180323 Refrain: }{\fs28\insrsid1180323 Magnify, O my soul, the only pure Virgin Theotokos, who gave birth to Christ the King.
\par }{\i\fs28\insrsid1180323 Refrain: }{\fs28\insrsid1180323 The magi and shepherds have come to worship Christ Who hath been born in the city of Bethlehem.
\par }{\insrsid1180323 
\par }{\b\fs28\insrsid1180323 \column Ode IX: 
\par }{\i\fs28\insrsid1180323 Refrain:}{\fs28\insrsid1180323  Today the Virgin giveth birth to the Master within the cave.
\par 
\par }{\i\fs28\insrsid1180323 Irmos:}{\fs28\insrsid1180323 
 Better would it be for us to keep silence in fear, for it is without peril; and it is difficult, O Virgin, to weave complex hymns harmoniously with love. But grant us, O Mother, the strength to fulfill our intent.
\par 
\par }{\i\fs28\insrsid1180323 Refrain:}{\fs28\insrsid1180323  Today the Master is born as a babe of the Virgin Mother.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s5\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel4\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs28\insrsid1180323 Repeat Irmos
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs28\insrsid1180323 
\par }{\i\fs28\insrsid1180323 Refrain:}{\fs28\insrsid1180323  Today the shepherds see the Saviour wrapped in swaddling-bands and lying in a manger.
\par }{\i\fs28\insrsid1180323 Refrain:}{\fs28\insrsid1180323  Today the Master, Who is intangible, is wrapped in rags as a babe.
\par }{\i\fs28\insrsid1180323 Refrain:}{\fs28\insrsid1180323  Today all creation rejoiceth and is glad, for Christ is born of the Virgin Maiden.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s5\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel4\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs28\insrsid1180323 [Troparion]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs28\insrsid1180323 
\par }{\i\fs28\insrsid1180323 Refrain:}{\fs28\insrsid1180323  The heavenly hosts proclaim to the world the Savior, Lord and Master Who hath been born.
\par }{\i\fs28\insrsid1180323 Refrain:}{\fs28\insrsid1180323  Magnify, O my soul, the might of the indivisible Godhead in three Hypostates!
\par }{\i\fs28\insrsid1180323 Refrain:}{\fs28\insrsid1180323  Magnify, O my soul, her who hath delivered us from the curse.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s5\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel4\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs28\insrsid1180323 [Troparion]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs28\insrsid1180323 
\par }{\insrsid1180323 
\par 
\par }}